ITS Lab - University of Tartu (ITS-UT) - University of Tartu (ITS-UT) Home Teaching Research Publications Blogs Resources About Us Blogs MOTT: multi-object tracking based on green learning 30.10.2023 Paper Multi-object tracking (MOT) is one of the most essential and challenging tasks in computer vision (CV). Unlike object detectors, MOT systems nowadays are more complicated and consist of several neural network models. Thus, the balance between the system performance and the runtime is crucial for online scenarios. While some of the works contribute by adding more modules to achieve improvements, we propose a pruned model by leveraging the state-of-the-art Transformer backbone model. Our model saves up to 62% FLOPS compared with other Transformer-based models and almost as twice as fast as them. The results of the proposed model are still competitive among the state-of-the-art methods. Moreover, we will open-source our modified Transformer backbone model for general CV tasks as well as the MOT system. MOT Transformer Green Learning Enhancing Multi-Object Tracking with Locality in Transformers 26.4.2023 Paper This paper explores the possibilities of enhancing the MOT system by leveraging the prevailing convolutional neural network (CNN) and a novel vision transformer technique Locality. There are several deficiencies in the transformer adopted for computer vision tasks. While the transformers are good at modeling global information for a long embedding, the locality mechanism, which learns the local features, is missing. This could lead to negligence of small objects, which may cause security issues. We combine the TransTrack MOT system with the locality mechanism inspired by LocalViT and find that the locality-enhanced system outperforms the baseline TransTrack by 5.3% MOTA on the MOT17 dataset. MOT Transformer Locality Revolutionizing Urban Planning: Leveraging Mobile Data for Comprehensive Commuting Insights 8.10.2020 Paper Our Research focuses on exploring the potential of cellular network mobile data to extract extensive movement and commuting patterns within the population. CDR Mobility HMM A Fresh Method for Locating Mobile Devices by Utilizing the CDR Information from Cellular Networks 26.6.2017 Paper The method leverages mobile device data to track urban and rural mobility, using a Kalman filter for movement modeling and location estimation. CDR Mobility Kalman Filter Unveiling Enhanced Markov Chain Algorithm for Mobility Prediction in Mobile Networks 8.6.2014 Paper Our study explores advanced mobility prediction in cellular networks. It enhances the Markov Chain method, validating with real-world data, to more accurately predict cell phone users' locations. CDR Mobility Markov Chain Use Base64 to Embed Images in Markdown 1.1.2000 Paper Make some experiments. Markdown Debug Hello World - Markdown Syntax Visualization 1.1.2000 Markdown testing document to show various syntax. Markdown Debug Display Latex in Markdown 1.1.2000 Testing integration with Latex in Markdown. Markdown Latex Debug Made with ❤️ by ITS Lab, Institute of Computer Science at University of Tartu Powered by Nuxt , Tailwind CSS , and Element Plus . Icons glyphs created by Pixel perfect - Flaticon ©2023 - 2024 All rights reserved.