Software Engineering Group Institute of Computer Science Faculty of Science and Technology University of Tartu Software Engineering Group Home Members Research Teaching Theses Topics 2023 Defended Theses Events Contact Log in Research Vacancies - Deadline 1 February 2014 The Institute of Computer Science of University of Tartu is seeking applications for two five-year research positions in the field of Software Engineering: one position at the level of Research Fellow and another at the level of Senior Research Fellow. The successful applicants will become part of Tartu's Software Engineering Research Group . This rapidly growing group conducts research in the fields of software processes and business process management, with an emphasis on empirical and data-driven methods for management of both software and business processes. The group also collaborates with the the Estonian Software Technology Competence Centre (STACC) : an applied research centre that conducts research with several IT companies at the intersection of data mining and software engineering, including the use of machine learning methods for monitoring and early defect detection as well as decision support. However, applicants with backgrounds in other fields related to software engineering are very welcome, as the group seeks to build complementarity and capacity across a wider spectrum of software engineering research. The position of Research Fellow is suitable for an early-career academic with a recent or soon-to-be-awarded doctoral degree. The successful candidate will have a promising track record and ambition to conduct high-quality research and to develop an independent research agenda over the long term. The Senior Research Fellow position is intended for a mid-career academic with at least four years of postdoctoral experience. The successful candidate will have an established research track record and demonstrated ability to conduct research independently, to collaborate with industry stakeholders where relevant, and to supervise other research staff members and/or PhD students. Both positions involve full-time commitment to research, with a very small teaching load (max 2 hours of contact time per week on average). The working language for both positions is English. The positions are initially for five years, renewable according to University regulations and depending on available research funding. Salary for the research fellow position is in the range of 2000-2400 euros per month depending on qualifications and experience, and in the range 2500-2800 for the senior position. Other benefits include 42 days of annual leave, relocation support if applicable, as well as access to the public health system as stipulated by Estonian law. University of Tartu (est. 1632) is a research-intensive university that promotes academic freedom and aims at becoming one of the top institutions in its region. The University's Institute of Computer Science counts circa 550 students and 60 full-time academic and research staff, out of which a quarter are international. The deadline for applications is 1 February 2014. Application
procedures can be found in the respective official announcements: Research Fellow Senior Research Fellow Inquiries can be directed to Marlon Dumas or Dietmar Pfahl (firstname.lastname@ut.ee)