DPS Group Toggle navigation Menu Theses topics Home People Research Publications Teaching Gallery Distributed and Pervasive Systems Group Institute of Computer Science, University of Tartu VENUE GUIDE The EU SPATIAL consortium meeting will be held in Tartu, Estonia from March 11 to 13, 2024. The first day (March 11) will be focus on a seminar event to share the outcomes of the project with local researchers and industry, whereas the subsequent two days (March 12 and 13) will be reserved for the consortium meeting. The venue is the DELTA building of the University of Tartu (Narva mnt 18). We hope you come and meet other facilitators of the on-going project physically. About Main Meeting Place - University of Tartu, Estonia The University of Tartu ( abbreviated TÜ ) is the oldest and largest university operating in Estonia and also the only university in the Baltic States , which is among the best 1.2% in the world. The year 1632 , when the Academia Gustaviana was opened in Tartu, is considered to be the founding of the University of Tartu . In the history of the university, there are different periods and several interruptions of activity. Work as an Estonian-language university began in 1919 . in the year. In the years 1940–1941 and 1944–1989, the university was called Tartu Riiklik Ülikool (abbreviation TRÜ). In 12 research fields, the University of Tartu is among the 1% most cited universities and research institutions in the world. Nearly 64 university researchers are among 1% of the world's most cited researchers (Web of Science). More than half of Estonian scientific publications have been published by Tartu University researchers. According to ETIS data, there are about 34,000 scientific publications , including more than 7,500 in the ISI Web of Science database. More than half of Estonian doctoral theses are defended at the University of Tartu (about 120 doctoral theses per year). As of July 2019, a total of 55 university spin-off companies are associated with UT members. In 2020, UT's new learning and research center Delta was completed , where the Institute of Computer Science , the Institute of Mathematics and Statistics , the Faculty of Economics and others are located. Venue Address: Delta Building, Narva mnt 18, University of Tartu,  Tartu Estonia DAY VENUE EVENT Day 1 Delta Center auditorium 1037 Data Science Seminar Event( Previous events ) Day 2 Seminar room 2049 SPATIAL Consortium meeting (Day 1) Day 3 Seminar room 2049 SPATIAL Consortium meeting (Day 2) About Tartu, Estonia Tartu, with its population of around 100,000 in an area of 38.8 square kilometres, is the second largest city of Estonia. Lying 185 kilometres south of Tallinn (the capital city of Estonia) it is also the centre of southern Estonia. The Emajõgi River, which connects the two largest lakes of Estonia, flows for the length of 10 kilometres within the city limits and adds colour to the city. Tartu has all the best of the globally new, but with the local advantage: the costs are lower, security is higher and the air is cleaner than in Tallinn, Helsinki or New York. Access to Estonian’s central market region, a well-educated and qualified work force, a good transport system and a fully modernised business infrastructure has made Tartu an attractive location. The geographical location makes the city very attractive logistically. By car/bus it takes no more than 2.5 hours to travel to Tallinn, or 3.5 hours to Riga. Tartu is a city that promotes innovation via competitive enterprises, being attractive to investors and facilitating entrepreneurship and knowledge-based production and services. If you are considering Estonia as a source of investment opportunity, you should really take a look at the City of Tartu and the surrounding county. Transportation to Tartu (and University of Tartu) BY BUS The most straightforward option is to arrive via air to the Tallinn airport, which is served by most major european airlines. After that: There are direct buses from Airport to Tartu Coach station provided by Lux Express. From airport, buses leave for Tartu every half-hour between 06:35 - 20:05 and every hour between 20:05 - 23:05. They are good quality busses with internet connection and rich multimedia to have fun during 2 hours 25 minutes of travel. The price is in range of 6-14 EUR. Buy the tickets - here BY PLANE Alternatively, Tartu has a small airport which has only one flight per day served by FINNAIR from and to Helsinki. There is a free shuttle bus connecting Tartu Airport and city center. Taking the bus from Tallinn to Tartu is an excellent alternative for travellers on a budget. BY TRAIN Trains to Tartu from Tallinn station run 10 times a day and it takes about 2 hours to get to Tartu. Trains in Estonia are comfortable and you can use Wi-Fi in first class. Unfortunately, Tallinn Airport does not have a train station; therefore, you must make your way to Tallinn’s train station: Tallinn, Toompuiestee 37, 10149 Tallinn, Estonia – which is 750 metres from the Old Town. Buy the tickets - here Distance from City Centre to Delta Building Auditorium The building is 5-10 minutes walk away from the city centre. There are several local buses with a stop at the Delta building. The following transit lines have routes that pass near Tartu Ülikooli Delta Keskus: Bus:109, 7, 8 Hotel Information Hotell SOHO Hotel Tartu Barclay Hotell AS More information on hotels: HERE Copyright © DPS Group 2019