<LINK>https://bigdata.cs.ut.ee</LINK>
Home | Data Systems Group Skip to main content Outer links Show — Outer links Hide — Outer links University of Tartu Faculty of Science and Technology Institute of Computer Science Main Navigration Show — Main Navigration Hide — Main Navigration Home People Alumni Books Projects Thesis Topics Jobs Contact Welcome to the Homepage of the Data Systems Research Group at University of Tartu. The Data Systems Group (DSG) at the University of Tartu was founded by Prof. Sherif Sakr in 2018 and is currently led by Assoc Prof. Radwa El Shawi Our research aims to significantly enhance the efficiency of data-intensive systems and democratize data science, making it accessible to a broader audience. We aspire to achieve this by creating a new generation of systems that empower users to unlock the full potential of their data. This involves investigating ways to develop systems that can better accommodate the latest developments in machine learning and harnessing machine learning to enhance the capabilities of existing systems. Our group aims to get engaged and contribute to building the next generation of efficient, scalable, and insightful data systems. If you have the same interest, please contact us. News We are hiring 2023.09.27 We are currently looking for motivated PostDoc, PhD students, and master students to work with us on wide range of topics in data-centric computing. If you are interested to join our group, send us your application including a detailed CV, and publications to radwa [dot] elshawi [at] ut [dot] ee. Please use the title "Joining Data Systems Groups as "your target" @ UT" for your email message. A New Demo Paper at EDBT/ICDT 2024 Joint Conference, Italy 2024.03.27 Mohamed Maher, Esraa Sayed, Omar Sedeek, Ahmed Eldamaty, Amr Kamel and Radwa El Shawi published and presented paper " GizaML: A Collaborative Meta-learning Based Framework Using LLM For Automated Time-Series Forecasting " as part of " The 27th International Conference on Extending Database Technology (EDBT) . 2024" Full authors list: Link: https://openproceedings.org/2024/conf/edbt/paper-249.pdf Best Paper Award at DOLAP 2024! 2024.03.27 Our paper "Adaptive Handling of Out-of-order Streams in Conformance Checking" won the best paper award at DOLAP 2024: 26th International Workshop on Design, Optimization, Languages, and Analytical Processing of Big Data, co-located with EDBT/ICDT 2024, March 25, 2024, Paestum, Italy. Congratulations to Kristo Raun, Riccardo Tommasini and Ahmed Awad! Link: https://ceur-ws.org/Vol-3653/paper1.pdf A New Paper at Expert Systems with Application 2023.11.28 Our paper, titled "AutoMLBench: A Comprehensive Experimental Evaluation of  Automated Machine Learning Frameworks" has been accepted by Expert Systems with Applications . A New Paper at PLOS ONE 2023.08.17 Our paper, titled "Patient-Level Explainable Machine Learning for Predicting Major Adverse Cardiovascular Events from SPECT MPI and CCTA Imaging," has been accepted by PLOS ONE. News Archive User account menu Show — User account menu Hide — User account menu Log in