<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/t/erc-ict-2018</LINK>
From an idea to succesful ERC grant application - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Esileht From an idea to succesful ERC grant application EN Logi sisse From an idea to succesful ERC grant application Home Events in 2018 Feedback to your one-paged structure Support during the most active period of writing Feedback from international ERC grant writing specialist (TBC) ? * ERC training in Tartu (23-24 May 2018) Reading club of ERC grant applications (27-28 Aug 2018) Registration form The Scope We are convinced that the Estonian and the University of Tartu scientists’ potential to receive an eminent grant from European Research Council (ERC) is constantly growing. We wish to encourage our scientists at the beginning of their career to apply for their first ERC grant and offer support for both the first-time and reapplying scientists. For that reason and in collaboration with the Estonian Research Council, we organize a series of events supporting the ERC grant writers from all research facilities in Estonia. Although the events are designed and timed to meet the deadline of the ERC Starting Grant call, we invite all scientists applying for the Consolidator Grant or Advanced Grant, plan to submit their application in future or even apply for another personal research grant to participate. Also, we kindly ask the leaders and colleagues to promote these workshops to outstanding scientists in your unit or workgroup. A supportive atmosphere among closest colleagues boosts self-confidence and inspires to prepare a successful grant application! As we are planning these activities for the first time we also ask for your understanding and patience - we will share additional information (registration, time-schedule) with you as soon as possible! Planned events Reading club of ERC grant applications (27. Aug. 9:00-13:00; 28. Aug 13:00-17:00) Feedback to your one-paged structure Support during the most active period of writing Feedback from international ERC grant writing specialist (To be confirmed) This series of events is organised in the collaboration with the Grant Office, the Institute of Computer Sciences, and the Estonian Research Agency Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused