<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/nai-seminar/fall</LINK>
Tehisliku ja loomuliku mõistuse seminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Tehisliku ja loomuliku mõistuse seminar (MTAT.03.292) EN Logi sisse Tehisliku ja loomuliku mõistuse seminar 2023/24 sügis Homepage Instructions Seminars My progress Learning, education, and AI Topic: Learning, education, and AI Seminars: Tuesday 14.15-15.45 Location: Online, join through Moodle or using this link and password (pass: AubeRsoF) Moodle (assignments, attendance, etc.): https://moodle.ut.ee/course/view.php?id=12942 Questions: Kristjan-Julius Laak (kristjan-julius.laak@ut.ee) NAI lab: https://nail.cs.ut.ee/ Description The seminar is mainly aimed at PhD and Master students, but curious 3rd year undegraduates are also welcome. Each semester we will cover a specific topic the area of AI and human intelligence. Process Please check the instructions page . Grading Although the goal of the seminar is learning, not getting grades, this is a pass/fail course and scores are needed to evaluate student contributions. Therefore, you will earn points throughout the course. To pass, you must earn at least 75% of the total points. A total of 100 points could be earned as follows: 45p: A 30-40 minute presentation of your chosen article will earn you 45 points of which 50% is multiplied by the feedback score given by the participants. 10p: Timely submission of non-factual questions on the topic of your article prior to your presentation will earn you 10 points. 15p: Attendance at each seminar earns 1 point. In order to pass the course, you must earn at least 10 points by attending 10 seminars. Attendance requires you to register it in Moodle during the seminar and keeping your webcam on throughout the seminar. 15p (minimum 4p to pass): Participation in seminar discussions will earn you 1 point per seminar. To receive the point, you must contribute to the discussion after the presentation. To pass the course, you must earn at least 4 points. 15p: Providing feedback to the presenter earns 1 point per seminar. TLDR; to pass the course, you have to present your article attend at least 10 seminars contribute to discussions in at least 4 seminars Note: max points could change when there is change in participants or the schedule. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused