<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/dsdmp/spring/Main/Homework</LINK>
Andmehaldurid ja andmehalduse põhimõtted - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Andmehaldurid ja andmehalduse põhimõtted (LTAT.02.014) EN Logi sisse Andmehaldurid ja andmehalduse põhimõtted 2023/24 kevad Main Lectures Homework References Homework Antud kursusel pole ühtegi ülesannet. HW10 (due 31.05) Download empty H2020 DPM template ; for each question in the template, assess yourself on 5 point scale: Do you understand what is expected of you, i.e. with your current knowledge, would you be able to answer this question? If ‘yes’ supplement with an example Are you able to help or assist your peer in filling in the given question (give guidance) Would you be able to assess a completed answer, criticise and provide feedback to its owner So, redo HW1 with improved confidence and knowledge! HW9 (due 31.05) Compile a detailed DMP OP1: Continue with the project from HW7/HW8 Improve the plan to reduce bad practices. Write the plan that would have saved time and effort for the researchers. OP2: Write one for one of your own projects Ideally for running a project and something you can use from now on HW8 (due 24.04) Read project proposals found here (Same as last week). Choose one for the task (NOT the same as last week)! Your task is to compile a "Before Submitting the Proposal" data management plan based on the proposal using the https://ut-training.ds-wizard.org/ tool. Submit the plan in pdf format, compressed to 3 A4 pages. HW7 (due 18.04) Read project proposals found here . Choose one for the task! Your task is to compile an initial data management plan based on the proposal using the https://dmponline.dcc.ac.uk/ tool. 
Submit the plan in pdf format, compressed to 2 A4 pages. HW6 (due 10.04) Homework in Estonian
Read through https://sisu.ut.ee/minuandmed Answer all “Mõtisklusülesanne” in writing! Indicate chapter and question Self-testing is fun, and you should do that, but it is not compulsory for homework. HW5 (due 28.03) Upload the prepared presentation on a given topic.
Topics: Redcap database, Amnesia tool, DataDoi.ee, PlutoF HW4 (due 13.03) Search for domain-specific databases in expression, sequence, genotype, protein, 3D and clinical data. At least five different domain-specific databases What are its standards (metadata, file formats, keep in mind FAI R ) How is the upload organised (checklist, dedicated upload tool, personal contact, etc.) How is the database funded/supported (how well is the data maintained, and preserved) HW3 (due 06.03) Analyse how to make ‘a dataset with analysis’ interoperable (max one page) Find out what is ELIXIR RIRs and explore the tools Choose two tools and write half a page summary of why you think they are on the list, bring out pointers related to interoperability (FAIR definition) Bonus task: Explore http://geneontology.org/sparql From documentation or example queries, choose one query to ”understand” and annotate (i.e. short annotation of each line in input and explanation of output demonstrating you have understood their meaning) HW2 (due 27.02) Using web resources like https://rdmkit.elixir-europe.org/ https://rd-alliance.github.io/metadata-directory/standards/ https://fairsharing.org/ https://www.dcc.ac.uk/guidance/standards/metadata/list Find and identify the metadata standard used in Your domain (suitable for the data you often work with). Find and identify a common vocabulary or ontology used in Your domain . If you are not sure what domain to choose, consult with the lecturer (as a suggestion, you can use, for example, metabolomics as a domain). Provide links and a short (max half a page) description for both. HW1 (due 15.02) Download empty H2020 DPM template ; for each question in the template, assess yourself on 5 point scale: Do you understand what is expected of you, i.e. with your current knowledge, would you be able to answer this question? If ‘yes’ supplement with an example Are you able to help or assist your peer in filling in the given question (give guidance) Would you be able to assess a completed answer, criticise and provide feedback to its owner Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused