<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/programming-games/spring</LINK>
Programmeerimismustrid arvutimängudes - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Programmeerimismustrid arvutimängudes (MTAT.03.315) EN Logi sisse Programmeerimismustrid arvutimängudes 2023/24 kevad Main Schedule Links MTAT.03.315 Programming Patterns in Computer Games Course info Practice sessions : Tuesdays 16:15 - 18:00, r2006 in Delta Questions : Daniel Nael (daniel.nael@ut.ee) Language : All course materials and practice sessions are in English. Software : Unity (C#) CGLearn : cglearn.eu Passing the course The final score is obtained as the sum of all points. The point score is then mapped to the F-A scale in the traditional manner (>90 points  A, >80 points = B, etc). There are no mandatory parts, as long as the points add up to a positive grade. Gaining points Practice sessions Each practice session is themed after as a task in game development. We will explore the problem and present how to apply certain design patterns to overcome this specific problem. In each practice session we will also have one or more exercises which have to be submitted for grading. It is also possible to get assistance on the previous task, as you will have always two weeks to solve each task. Grading : Exercises from practice sessions will add up to 70% of the points. Deadlines : Practice exercises must be submitted within two weeks from the start of practice session they were given in. Most tasks can be solved and submitted in pairs. Written exam The exam will be in writing and will consist of theoretical questions discussed during the practice session and features a small programming task similar to homeworks. Grading: The questions in exam will add up to 30% of the points. Exam dates: 28.05 (16:00 - 18:00, room 2006) Bonus points It is possible to gain bonus points for exceptional solutions to practice exercises. Participating in UT Game Jam / Ludum Dare 55 is worth 5 bonus points. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused