<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/t/SSC2014</LINK>
Student Startup Camp 2014 - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Esileht Student Startup Camp 2014 EN Logi sisse Student Startup Camp 2014 Home About Speakers Meet the teams! Videos From 3-9th February University of Tartu and Garage48 organized a Student Startup Camp - a practical interdisciplinary entrepreneurship course aimed to provide students with necessary skills and confidence to launch technology-related businesses. The structure was all about teamwork, practical experience and one-on-one mentoring, aiming for all shared know-how to be applicable directly to projects being worked on. Students pitched their ideas, formed teams and started the work to develop working prototypes to show at Sundays demo night, while being mentored by experienced entrepreneurs and participating in morning lectures during the week. From 10 teams, Crophealer - a solution for farmers to help detect problems with plants, stood out and won the first Student Startup Camp competition. Maiden Team , a cardgame based on reallife events, was annouced as the runner-up. Promise Me made the best presentation and Dogglr got noted as having the best social media presence. Read more about the the teams and event at Garage48 blog. Student Startup Camp, 3-9 February 2014, Tartu, Estonia, ssc@garage48.org The Student Startup Camp is supported by the European Social Funds project "Development of IT Masters Curricula at University of Tartu in cooperation with Estonian IT-companies" Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused