<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/ux_in_digital_products/fall</LINK>
Kasutajakogemus digitoodetes - sõnaline ja visuaalne disain - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Kasutajakogemus digitoodetes - sõnaline ja visuaalne disain (LTAT.05.031) EN Logi sisse Kasutajakogemus digitoodetes - sõnaline ja visuaalne disain 2023/24 sügis Pealeht Loengud Viited Description An introductory course to digital product creation with the main focus on linguistic and visual design. The visual design introduces graphic design and main principles in composition; linguistic design introduces the types of microcopy and its functions, how to write microcopy, and what should be known before starting writing. The first lectures of the course introduce the main principles of linguistic and visual design, information architecture, branding basics and user research principles. In the second part of the course, this knowledge will be put into practice by creating and testing a prototype. Schedule 12.09.2023 Introductory seminar 26.09.2023 User-centered design. User research: what? why? and how? 10.10.2023 Basics of branding: why do I need to know this? What is voice and tone? Visual design: composition, the principles of UI design 24.10.2023 Linguistic design: microcopy types, the golden rules of UX writing (and its connection to voice and tone), writing process and making decisions. Handy tools: Wordtune, Grammarly 07.11.2023 Product design process: words and visuals 21.11.2023 Visual design: Figma - guest lecturer 05.12.2023 Visual design: Figma - guest lecturer 19.12.2023 Presentations. Final discussion: how did it go? What were the pain points? How to solve them? Learning outcomes On the successful completion of the course, the student: knows the basic principles of linguistic and visual communication knows how to implement the basics of user research knows the basics of branding and connects them to product design knows the basics of information architecture uses the principle of graphic design in prototype creation writes best suited microcopy for the prototype, using the golden rules of UX writing knows testing methods for prototype and ready product pinpoints and solves the paint points in the creation process of digital product Teaching Team: Maria Laanelepp, Maria Reile Assessment criteria This is non-differentiated (pass, fail, not present) course.
At the end of the semester the students are required to present their digital product as a joint project (in groups of two). The presentation must also include an overview of the work process, the pain points that occurred during the process, and the solutions to these pain points.
To pass the course, the following elements must be fulfilled in the project: user research plan 5 characteristic features of your brand verbal design documentation graphic design documentation building the product wireframe and prototype prototype testing plan Requirements to be met for final assessment The student has taken part in 80% of the seminars and practicums and all written assignments have been submitted on time. The student has given an oral presentation about their joint project (digital product). This course is part of Sandbox. Learn more about Sandbox on https://sandbox.cs.ut.ee/ Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused