<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/ge/fall</LINK>
Mängumootorid - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Mängumootorid (LTAT.02.018) EN Logi sisse Mängumootorid 2023/24 sügis Main Schedule Unity Godot Unreal Unreal Networking LTAT.02.018 Game Engines Practises : Monday at 10:15 (Delta room 2006) Questions : Jaanus Jaggo (jjaggo@ut.ee) Raimond Tunnel (jee7@ut.ee) Discord Server : Log in to see the Discord link. The course teaches to use the three common game engines: Unity , Godot and Unreal Engine 4 . Students will learn to build their game architectures in each engine and will know which engine is the most fitting for solving a certain problem. After taking the course the student: Has acquired the fundamental knowledge to use Unity, Godot and Unreal Engine 4 game engines. Is capable of using these engines to program a game. Knows the architecture patterns of these engines and is capable of using them. Is capable of comparing these engines in terms of suitability for solving a specific problem. The course is made of three sections where each section concentrates on one game engine: Unity, Godot and Unreal Engine 4. The students will practise their knowledge by making a small game prototype in each engine. Grading To successfully complete the course you will need to collect more than 50 points.
The points are given by: Homeworks (60p) - The homework have to be submitted in time and meet the criteria. Test (40p) - The student has to collect at least 30 points from the homework tasks to be allowed to take the test The information about the test will be shared in Discord. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused