<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/nn/spring/Main/Practices</LINK>
Tehisnärvivõrgud - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Tehisnärvivõrgud (LTAT.02.001) EN Logi sisse Tehisnärvivõrgud 2023/24 kevad Main Timetable Practices Projects Tests Resources Practices Practice sessions will be composed of three parts: First we will give a short overview of the main mistakes and tricky parts of the previous homework (that you should have already submitted). You will be invited to present the already submitted homework during the session if you wish to do so. Bonus points will be awarded for presentations during the practice session. When necessary, a longer description of typical mistakes might be published in the forum so you can read about it in more depth. Secondly, we are going to solve some exercises and/or discuss some theoretical aspects that should help you to better understand the concepts that are needed for solving the current homework. In the last part of the session you can ask questions about the current homework. Since we publish the homework one week before the practice session, you have had time to go through it. You can use this time to ask questions about the confusing/difficult parts. The work schedule for homeworks is the following: You will receive the new homework and background reading material in the week before the practice session, at the "Timetable" section of the webpage. We strongly advise you to work through the background material (it is really helpful!) before and while going through the tasks. In the session you can ask questions about the homework. This is most useful if you have started solving the homework - in that case you will possibly have more questions and the practice session is more useful for you! After the session you have time to submit your homework until the following week's Tuesday at 23.59 (midnight) . For that, please zip back all the files you downloaded for the homework (except for the dataset) and send it back to us in the corresponding form at the end of this page. We strongly advise you to submit it sooner (at least a day or two) so you have time to start working on the new homework that will be discussed in the subsequent practice session. The deadline is strict : please keep in mind that we will cover the potentially tricky parts of the HW in the next week's practice or in some other way  after the respective deadline, so submitting late would mean you can benefit from the explanations, hints and solutions given. Therefore, logically, it is not possible to accept late submissions. We invite you to use the forum if you are struggling with some task. We also encourage you to answer questions yourselves to help each other out since the instructors might not always be able to answer as quickly as you would. But be reminded not to give the answer to the task but rather hint in the correct direction. :) Grades for graded tasks are available here ! Note that, in compliance with GDPR, we use randomly generated pseudonyms, rather than your SIS student IDs. To find out your student pseudonym, please go to the My Data page. Lahenduste esitamiseks peate olema sisse loginud ja kursusele registreerunud. To check what the tasks looked like last time we held the course (and get an estimate of what difficulty level to expect): check here . Grades for graded tasks will be available here soon . ! Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused