<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/kubecloud/fall</LINK>
Pilvepõhised rakendused Kubernetesel - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Pilvepõhised rakendused Kubernetesel (LTAT.06.025) EN Logi sisse Pilvepõhised rakendused Kubernetesel 2023/24 sügis Main page Lectures Practice sessions Plagiarism Policy Links Cloud Native Applications on Kubernetes Containerization technologies and orchestration solutions like Kubernetes are the cornerstones of building efficient microservice-based scalable and reliable applications.
This course deals with the nature, design, and development of container-based systems and cloud-native services. The knowledge acquired in the course is hardened through practical tasks. The goals of the course are to: Give students knowledge and understanding of the nature of containerization, container orchestration solutions and using them to design cloud-native systems. Provide hands-on experience in managing Kubernetes services, deployments, and creating cloud-native applications. Introduce recent developments in the domain Prerequisites and Expectations to students Students who take this course should be: Comfortable with Linux Linux command line Using VMs Comfortable with different programming and configuration languages Python Some JavaScript Web programming External APIs REST YAML (and JSON) NB! Using a personal laptop is necessary in the labs. If you do not have one, you should be able to lend laptop from the institute. Learning outcomes: The student will know: The architecture and building blocks of Kubernetes How to build microservices using Kubernetes How to configure, administer, and deploy services How to test, scale, and monitor Kubernetes applications How to design reliable cloud-native applications Organization of the course Lecturers: Pelle Jakovits -  Narva mnt 18, 3040  (jakovits ät ut . ee), +372 737 6419 Ilja Livenson (ilja . livenson ät ut . ee) Sander Kuusemets (sander . kuusemets ät ut . ee) Lab supervisors: Sergei Zaiaev (sergei . zaiaev ät ut . ee) Lecture times: Wednesday 10.15 - 12.00  in Delta (Narva mnt 18) - room 2034  (And broadcast live) Practice session times: Wednesday 12.15 - 14.00  in Delta (Narva mnt 18) - room 2034 Course communication Course Zoom Used for Lecture broadcast. Course Slack Used for course discussion, lab support. You have to be logged in and student of the course to see the link here. (Contact Pelle if you can not see the link) Study Information System (SIS) Course announcements will be sent through SIS. Make sure your email is configured in SIS so you do not miss any important information Assessment Lab exercises: 50% of the final grade comes from completing mandatory labs Exam: 50% of the final grade Course is graded positively if you collect at least 51% of total points Labs have to be done 100% to be eligible for the final exam. Completion of labs will be checked by an automated system. Have you pick between two options: Exam Option I - December 20 Exam Option II - January 10 RE-exam - January 17 Can only take if fail the first try Can not be used to improve grade Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused