<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/spm/spring</LINK>
Tarkvaratoodete juhtimine - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Tarkvaratoodete juhtimine (MTAT.03.325) EN Logi sisse Tarkvaratoodete juhtimine 2023/24 kevad Home Course Schedule Moodle MTAT.03.325 Software Product Management Coordinator: Fredrik Milani (milani ät ut . ee) Objective This course introduces the fundamentals of software product management, beginning with an initial idea, the business model, aspects of customer perspectives, minimum viable product, continuous development, and measuring various aspects, for successful management of a software product. The course is well suited for students who seek to gain a fundamental understanding of digital product management or who wish to pursue a career as a product manager. On successful completion of this course, students will: Describe, analyze, and develop a business model for a digital product Apply different ideation techniques for product innovation, and conduct user research to understand user needs Elicit and formulate requirements for digital products, and understand what constitutes a good user experience Define and determine the minimum viable product of a digital product Conduct user testing, manage risks associated with digital products, and work with a roadmap of the digital product Use quantifiable data to monitor, analyze, and assess the performance of a digital product Lecturers Fredrik Milani Kateryna Kubrak (TA) Structure The course will be delivered to the students through the following channels: Lectures – Theory with examples are presented during sessions. Practical Sessions – The theory provided during the lectures is applied to case studies. Assignments – There will be individual quizzes, a project assignment to be done in groups, and an individual exam. All the lectures happen online (Zoom link in Moodle) and are recorded. Practical seminars take place on-site in Delta and online in parallel and are not recorded. For links and additional information, see Moodle. Please note that we use Moodle as the main tool in this course (all materials, assignments, quizzes, etc. are in Moodle). Assessment This course consists of quizzes, one project assignment, and a final exam. The distribution of the points for each assessment type is as follows. Quizzes: The quizzes (in Moodle) can give a total of a maximum of 30 points. Group Project Assignment: The group project assignment can give a maximum of 10 points. Exam: The exam can give a maximum of 60 points. The maximum number of points for the course is 100. For a passing grade, points are required from all assessment parts (and at least 15 points from the exam). The grading follows the standard rules of the University of Tartu. For a passing grade, at least 51 points (grade E) are required. For D, 61 points are required. The same structure applies to grades C, B, and A where an A requires at least 91 points. Communication We are using Slack as our main communication channel. In Slack, you can address questions regarding the course, the project assignment, and general questions. The invitation to Slack is available on the Moodle page of the course. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused