<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/cryptoseminar/fall</LINK>
Krüptograafia ja küberturvalisuse uurimisseminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Krüptograafia ja küberturvalisuse uurimisseminar (MTAT.07.022) EN Logi sisse Krüptograafia ja küberturvalisuse uurimisseminar 2023/24 sügis Homepage Topics Links Final reports Research Seminar in Cryptography and Cyber Security Seminar coordinator: Toomas Krips First meeting:Friday,22th September, 16.15, Delta, room 2045 Language: English Contact: toomas.krips@ut.ee The Zoom room is Join Zoom Meeting https://ut-ee.zoom.us/j/98043916175?pwd=MndNOVJySTBWcS9VbTY5VTlIRU4yZz09 Meeting ID: 980 4391 6175
Passcode: ati The physical room is in Delta in room 2045. General information The main aim of the course is to introduce a variety of research topics from the fields of Computer Security and Cryptography. Participation in the seminar is especially recommended to Bachelor or Master's students who consider specializing in these areas. Format A student will be required to write and present a research report on one of the proposed topics. Each presentation typically takes about 45 minutes (including 10 minutes for questions and discussion). The student should attend the presentations of the other students and participate in the discussion. The actual number of contact hours will depend on the number of presentations (projects), and it will typically be smaller than 32. This work is evaluated by PASS or FAIL grade and gives 3 EAP. The research report should be written according to the academic standards, with proper style, formatting, citations, and overall composition of the report. Generally, one could think of it as a mini-paper. The size of the report is not fixed, but 10 pages might be a reasonable aim. There is an option for extended form of participation in the seminar. This option leads to additional 3 EAP and a grade. Typically the student will provide a novel solution or implementation. This is done by taking the individual course (MTAT.07.020 Special Assignment in Cryptography), and it requires agreement of a supervisor and the seminar organizer. Schedule Kickoff meeting:September 22th December 3rd: Preliminary reports deadline December 14th: Peer reviews deadline December 21th:Final report deadline The presentations will happen in hybrid form in Delta in room 2045. They will happen at Fridays from 16.15-17.45. Two people can present at one time slot. The presentations will happen at: 24th of November: "Security Comparisons and Performance Analyses of Post-Quantum Signature Algorithms" 8th of December: "Zero-knowledge proofs of photo authenticity" ,"Android Malware Analysis" 15th of December:"Cryptographic protocol usage in the blockchain","Reverse engineering of car immobilizer protocol" 22th of December: extra time slot, in case somebody falls ill or has some other issue Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused