HotPOST 2020 - Organizers Toggle navigation Menu HotPOST 2020 Home Call for papers Organizing Committee Program PROGRAM 12th International Workshop on Hot Topics in Pervasive Mobile and Online Social Networking (HotPOST 2020) (Co-located with INFOCOM 2020) Toronto, Canada Program (July 6, 2020) - Virtual Event Opening Remarks: Welcome words! Huber Flores , University of Tartu, Estonia Shaolei Ren , University of California Riverside, USA Keynote Talk: Computation Distribution in a Cloud-Edge Architecture for IoT Applications Associate Professor Javier Berrocal , University of Extremadura, Spain. Abstract: The introduction of Internet of Things (IoT) devices as commonplace and the increase in their computing and storage capabilities has raised the interest on their usage in diferent domains. Some of them, like Industry or Health, have very stringent Quality of Service (QoS) requirements for their applications. During the last few years, paradigms such as Fog, Edge or Mist computing have been proposed in order to improve and achieve the QoS of these applications. In this talk, we delve into the need for multilayered architectures (Cloud-Fog-Edge-Mist), where some of the layers can be optional depending on the specific QoS requirements, the behaviour and the context of each IoT application. In these environments, diferent techniques and methodologies are necessary in order to distribute the computation in several layers depending on the application and its context. In addition, in current IoT applications, such as IIoT (Industrial Internet of Things) and IoMT (Internet of Medical Things) not only the QoS but also the socio-technical integration is crucial. Therefore, we will also focus on how the integration of Humans in these applications can be achieved. Speaker bio: Javier Berrocal is an Associate professor at the University of Extremadura. He received his PhD in Computer Science from University of Extremadura in 2014, MS in Computer Science in 2009, and BS in Computer Science in 2007. Berrocal has published more that one hundred papers in diferent journals and conferences such as Pervasive and Mobile Computing, IEEE Internet Computing, IEEE Software, IEEE Access, IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and Communication, etc. His main research interests are mobile computing, context awareness, pervasive systems, crowd sensing, Internet of Things, and Fog computing. The work done in these research areas by Javier Berrocal is aimed at creating smart environments that automate the monitoring and the integration of Humans. Specially, he focuses on applying his research on smart-cities, Industrial IoT, mHealth and gerontechnology. Finally, Berrocal is a cofounder of the company Gloin, which is a software-based consulting company. Session-1: Pervasive Applications Exploring Approaches to the Management of Physical, Virtual, and Social Sensors by Ngombo Armando (University of Coimbra, Portugal & Escola Superior Politécnica do Uíge, Angola); José Marcelo Silva Lopes Fernandes (University of Coimbra, Portugal); André Rodrigues (Centre of Informatics and Systems of the University of Coimbra & Polytechnic Institute of Coimbra, ISCAC, Portugal); Jorge Sá Silva and Fernando Boavida (University of Coimbra, Portugal) Migrating to SDN for Mobile Core Networks: A Dynamic and Global Perspective by Xiaole Li, Hongyun Zheng and Yuchun Guo (Beijing Jiaotong University, China) Point-of-Interest Recommendation based on Geographical Influence and Extended Pairwise Ranking by Chang Su, Jin Wang and Xie Xian-Zhong (Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications, China) Session-2: Social Systems Characterizing Social Marketing Behavior of E-commerce Celebrities and Predicting Their Value by Xiang Li, Yuchun Guo, Ye Sheng and Yishuai Chen (Beijing Jiaotong University, China) The German-Speaking Twitter Community Reference Data Set by Johannes Pflugmacher and Stephan Escher (TU Dresden, Germany); Jan Ludwig Reubold (Karlsruhe Institute of Technology, Germany); Thorsten Strufe (Karlsruhe Institute of Technology & Centre for Tactile Internet (CeTI)/TU Dresden, Germany) Closing remarks Discussion and final words Copyright © HotPOST 2020