<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/mcsem/spring/Main/TopicsGuide</LINK>
Mobiili- ja pilvearvutuse seminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Mobiili- ja pilvearvutuse seminar (MTAT.03.280) EN Logi sisse Mobiili- ja pilvearvutuse seminar 2023/24 kevad Homepage Schedule, deadlines Seminar Tasks Topics Links Submissions Seminar Reports Topic structure A topic is typically* based on 1-2 research articles as a starting point. An initial research question to drive the focus is also included. During the semester, the student's tasks for the seminar are: Introductory presentation Give a presentation where you briefly introduce your chosen topic Individual study Study the initial article(s) in-depth to become acquainted with the topic and be able to proceed with the rest of the below tasks Literature search Perform a literature search to find more relevant research for your topic & write an initial report about it This can be based on (AND/OR): 1) searching for articles using terminology learned from the initial papers 2) analyzing the citing/cited papers of the initial papers. You need to find 3-6 papers (agree with your topic supervisor) Write & submit a min. 1 page worth of content where you cover: Describe the methodology of how you assembled the additional set of literature Synthesize & give an overview of the content, contributions of the found papers. The written discussion about these related works should form a meaningful whole. Main Presentation ​ One week before your presentation ​ Submit presentation structure/draft to topic supervisor for feedback Give a presentation about one of the articles based on your choice. The idea is to give a detailed view into the topic and the specific work(s) being presented - describe the problem, what methods were used, what were the results, which challenges were left open. The choice must be agreed with your supervisor Report Write a report on your topic. Based on your study of these papers, synthesize them & formulate answers to the original research questions and goals. Minimum of 5 pages in ACM 2-column format The report should form a meaningful whole document, with a typical academic structure, incl. introduction and motivation to the topic, the definition of goals before the main content, and it should end with a conclusion. Peer-Review Peer-Review the reports of two other students, giving feedback describing the good and weak parts of the reports and leaving general comments. Should contain two parts: General opinion of the report (~1 A4 page) with general comments on the weaknesses and strengths of the report. Running notes and comments in the PDF of the report under review. * Exceptions should be agreed upon with topic supervisors. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused