<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/concurprog/fall</LINK>
Paralleelprogrammeerimise keeled - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Paralleelprogrammeerimise keeled (LTAT.06.022) EN Logi sisse Paralleelprogrammeerimise keeled 2023/24 sügis Pealeht Loengud Labs Viited Homework This module is a practical introduction to concurrent programming. It is taught in English. 1st lecture takes place on September 11th! Lectures: Mondays 12:15 - 14:00, Narva mnt 18 - 1017
Labs: Mondays 16:15 - 18:00, Narva mnt 18 Lecturers: Mohammad Anagreh, Stefan Kuhn Note that for now we do not plan to use moodle, everthing will be done in courses. Homework Four pieces of homework must be submitted and passed. They are found under "Homework" in the navigation bar. Since homework 3 is more demanding this year, we have decided to count this for 3 +4. Grading Your final grade will be based on the results of project and exam. Exam - 50%
Project - 50% Here are some example questions for the exam. In general, we will try to ask for concepts, not remote details. Explain the general purpose of a Future Who decides if a thread runs or is suspended? Explain the consequences of your answer In Foster's methodology, the four steps in designing a concurrent algorithm are partitioning, communication, agglomeration, and mapping. Explain the communication step. Explain data parallelism Exam dates - first attempt: Monday, 18th of December, 16:15 (this is the slot of the last lab) - second attempt: Monday, 15th of January, 16:15 - resit: Monday, 29th of January, 16:15 Project work The deadline for project submission is January 15th 2023. The task is found here: Project task (docx) Project task (pdf) Submission is via courses Lahenduste esitamiseks peate olema sisse loginud ja kursusele registreerunud. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused