<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/HPC/fall</LINK>
Kõrgjõudlusega andmetöötlus - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Kõrgjõudlusega andmetöötlus (LTAT.06.026) EN Logi sisse Kõrgjõudlusega andmetöötlus 2023/24 sügis Home Practicals References High Performance Computing LTAT.06.026 The goal is to provide an understanding of high performance computing, how it works, and introduce its best practices and use cases to enable efficient calculations with large complex data. Prerequisites You are expected to know the basics of Linux, networking and the internet, and to be able to use any preferred search engine.
This is not an "Introduction to Linux" course! Course info This course is thought in two parts - weekly lectures followed by practical sessions. Lectures are there to establish basic knowledge of topics, give explanations and examples, and create an overall understanding of the topic. Practical sessions are built to be highly hands-on but independent - students are given guides with thorough explanations how to do the lab, which is then supervised by teachers in person during the physical classroom lessons, through Zoom during virtual lessons, or through Slack at other times. Learning outcomes: .. Understanding of HPC architecture .. Understanding of computing resource management .. Ability to use HPC environments for scientific computing at will .. Beginners level at parallel computing .. Skills in working with command line .. Skills in commonly used software solutions (Galaxy, Jupyter, RStudio) Related keywords: hpc, data management, quotas, slurm, running jobs, monitoring jobs, queue, cpu computing, gpu comuting, data storage, python, MPI, OpenMP, Jupyter, Galaxy, RStudio, ETAIS, containers in HPC, modules, software Taught by: Sander Kuusemets, Ott Oopkaup, Vladisav Tuzov, Mait Tenslind, Mihkel Tiks, Sander Kütisaar, Anne Vomm, Anders Martoja Lecture recordings can be found on panopto Lectures will take place in room 1004.
Practicals will take place in room 2034. Timetable: Lecture Monday: 10:15 - 12:00: Sander Kuusemets, Ott Oopkaup - changes week-by-week. Practical Thursday: 14:15 - 16:00: Ott Eric Oopkaup, Vladislav Tuzov, Mait Tenslind - changes week-by-week. Lab zoom links (log into courses to see the Zoom link) Communication The course instructors themselves support two means of communication to ease communication between students, or with instructors - either in class, or using the course Slack. Discussion is welcome and recommended between students, either during labs or Slack. No helping each other during the exam though. Critical messages will be announced personally using SIS (Study information System messages) and Slack. (log into courses to see the Zoom link) Assessment Grading: Non-differentiated (pass, fail, not present) Course is graded positively (pass) if you complete all the lab exercises There are 8 labs in total. Completion of labs will be checked by an automatic system. Lab environment Labs are accessed over the network, required software: A VPN Client An SSH Client A Web browser Each student will be given access to a HPC cluster on the first course week, where they will complete their labs. Preliminary Linux skills are highly recommended. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused