<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/MM/spring/Main/HomePage</LINK>
Mobiilsuse modelleerimine - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Mobiilsuse modelleerimine (LTAT.06.016) EN Logi sisse Mobiilsuse modelleerimine 2023/24 kevad HomePage Lectures Tutorials Assignments Projects Objective This course provides an overview of fundamental topics in mobility modelling and urban dynamics from a modern perspective. Its main objective is to utilize data to comprehend how, when, where, and ultimately why people move. By analyzing the short-term and long-term impacts of mobility on the environment and society, we emphasize the shift from the traditional vehicle-centric vision in transportation and mobility modelling to a more human-centric approach. Upon completion of this course, you will gain a comprehensive understanding and a conceptual overview of various models. You will acquire technical skills to employ data in formulating diverse transportation and mobility problems, along with the practical knowledge required to interpret them. Additionally, you will be capable of quantitatively evaluating and analyzing the model results. Note: This course requires a basic level of Python programming. Please refer to tutorial 0 for a recap. Course Schedule Lectures: Individual work on lecture notes and additional readings. Office hours: Tuesdays 10.15 - 12.00, Delta 3041. To schedule a meeting outside office hours, please make an appointment by email. Mozhgan PourmoradNasseri (mozhgan@ut.ee) Lab sessions Individual work on tutorials. Office hours & In-person sessions: Wednesday 14.15 - 16.00, Delta 3041 or 1022 Helen Tera (helen.tera@ut.ee) Grading Policy Final grade = Assignments (50%) + Project (50%). Literature The course covers selected topics from the following books. In addition, during the semester, relevant research papers will be added to the list. Mobility Patterns, Big Data and Transport Analytics: Tools and Applications for Modeling Modeling Urban Dynamics: Mobility, Accessibility and Real Estate Value Mobility Data: Modeling, Management, and Understanding Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused