<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/cryptoseminar/spring/Main/HomePage</LINK>
Krüptograafia  ja küberturvalisuse uurimisseminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Krüptograafia  ja küberturvalisuse uurimisseminar (MTAT.07.022) EN Logi sisse Krüptograafia  ja küberturvalisuse uurimisseminar 2023/24 kevad Homepage Topics Links Final reports Research Seminar in Cryptography and Cyber Security Seminar coordinator: Toomas Krips First meeting:Friday,1st of March, 16.15, Delta, room 2047 Language: English Contact: toomas.krips@ut.ee
The presentations will happen at Fridays, from 3th of May to 24th of May, at 16.15, both in Delta, room 2047, and in Zoom, link given below. The kickoff seminar can also be joined in zoom, at: 
The zoom seminar room is https://ut-ee.zoom.us/j/8225835714?pwd=NUZZWW5UOEZCUUw4d0R1VXV4ZU9oUT09&omn=92688171170 Meeting ID: 822 583 5714
Passcode: ati General information The main aim of the course is to introduce a variety of research topics from the fields of Computer Security and Cryptography. Participation in the seminar is especially recommended to Bachelor or Master's students who consider specializing in these areas. Format A student will be required to write and present a research report on one of the proposed topics. Each presentation typically takes about 45 minutes (including 10 minutes for questions and discussion). The student should attend the presentations of the other students and participate in the discussion. The actual number of contact hours will depend on the number of presentations (projects), and it will typically be smaller than 32. This work is evaluated by PASS or FAIL grade and gives 3 EAP. There is an option for extended form of participation in the seminar. This option leads to additional 3 EAP and a grade. Typically the student will provide a novel solution or implementation. This is done by taking the individual course (MTAT.07.020 Special Assignment in Cryptography), and it requires agreement of a supervisor and the seminar organizer. Schedule Preliminary reports due: 19th of  May Peer reviews due: 29th of May Final reports due: 8th of June Presentation date 1: 3th of May: GSM Kraken Presentation date 2: 10th of May: Hash-based zk-SNARKs Presentation date 3: 17th of May: "Soft-spoken Oblivious Transfer.", "Security of Microcontroller Code Protection Features" \\   
Extra time slot for presentations: 24th of May: "Implementing Post-quantum algorithms", “Framework for auditing election results produced by the Estonian i-voting system” Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused