<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/crypto-ii/fall</LINK>
Krüptoloogia II  - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Krüptoloogia II  (MTAT.07.003) EN Logi sisse Krüptoloogia II 2023/24 sügis Previous Years : 2008 » 2009 » 2010 » 2012 » 2014 About Lectures Videos GitHub Homeworks Admininistation Under construction! Requirements Prerequisites to Cryptology II course are familiarity higher math and algebra rudiments of complexity theory basic level understanding in cryptology reasonable English skills If the formal requirements of the ÕIS do not permit registration then write me an email or talk with me. After that we decide whether to enrol you or not. Secondly, active participation in the course is absolute necessity. You must participate in most lectures or otherwise you are not allowed to take the exam. Special arrangements are possible but not advised. Grading The course grade is determined by three components: active participation a final research report an oral open-book exam In a nutshell, first two components give a base level grade and the exam can increase or decrease the base level grade by one grade point. Formal grading system Participation. Student gets grade F if he or she misses 3 or more lectures. Student gets grade F if he or she misses 3 or more exercise sessions. In reasonable circumstances, it is possible to comp Strong ensate missed lectures or exercise sessions by extra work. Details are determined by individual agreements with the lecturer. Active participation. Students are entitled to get from 0 to 40 points from exercise sessions. Points are given by aggregating points of home assignments given out in each exercise session. Usually, the home assignement is a single exercise from the exercise sheet not solved in the exercise session. Final report. Each student gets a research topic and must write a 6-10 page report. The report can give up 50 points. This year the reports are mostly supplementary materials for the lectures.
Extra points. Students can get extra points from additional exercises.
Final grading and exam. All points specified above are summarised before the exam. The exam might change this sum up to 10 points in both directions. Next, the grade is determined by the standard university scale: 0-50 (F), 51-60 (E), 61-70 (D), 71-80 (C), 81-90 (B), 91-100 (A). A Gentleman's agreement: the exam result cannot decrease grade from E to grade F. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused