<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/cg-sem/spring</LINK>
Arvutigraafika seminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Arvutigraafika seminar (MTAT.03.305) EN Logi sisse Arvutigraafika seminar 2023/24 kevad Main Seminars Links MTAT.03.305 Computer Graphics Seminar Seminars : Friday 14:15 - 15:45, Delta room 2047 Questions : Raimond-Hendrik Tunnel (jee7@ut.ee) Mailing list : aine.ati.arvutigraafika@lists.ut.ee CGLearn : https://cglearn.eu Previous years Reel videos The CG and Gamedev Student's Courses Map The seminar is aimed at students who want to learn and share computer graphics related topics. Those topics can be basic or advanced, depending on the student's previous experience and enthusiasm. The recommended prerequisite for the seminar is MTAT.03.015 Computer Graphics . Requirements / Grading To get a positive grade for the seminar the student will need to: Attend the seminars . Attendance in at least 10 seminars is compulsory. If you have a problem with this requirement, we can come to some another individual agreement. Give a presentation . You are required to give one seminar on a topic of your choosing (we have a list of topics if you have trouble finding one yourself). Presentation should explain your topic in a way that your fellow students in the seminar understand the main ideas behind it. You should also include examples of real world applications or you could provide a demo application yourself. We also encourage you to be creative, create a discussion and engage others in your topic. For example you could organize half of your seminar to be a workshop. Be motivated in computer graphics . Please do not take this seminar for easy credits. We expect you to be able to learn something useful for yourself from your research and also from all the other presentations. So when you come to the seminars, be ready to listen the presenters and think along. This seminar is not meant for looking at unrelated memes, instant messaging or doing homework for other courses in your laptop. The organizational aspects will be explained on in detail on the first lecture, so it is highly recommended to attend it. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused