<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/compimaging/spring/Main/Information</LINK>
Arvutuslik pildistamine - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Arvutuslik pildistamine (LTAT.02.025) EN Logi sisse Arvutuslik pildistamine 2023/24 kevad Pealeht Loengud Assignments Homework and Schedule Information Submit Submit backup ? Essays Projects Exam Help Links Rules for homework tasks and plagiarism The homework tasks are meant to be solved alone. If you struggle with something you are welcomed to write to the Piazza forum, attend the consultations or ask directly from TA's. You are of course allowed to discuss the main ideas with other students, but you have to solve the tasks by yourself, it shouldn't be a team effort. This is necessary because of the format of the course, which is very strongly based on individual work so if you don't do it you will not acquire all the knowledge you need during the course. Often you are asked to implement an algorithm. If a considerable part of your solution is based on some material you found online, you should definitely add a citation to that source, otherwise, it could also be called plagiarism. So in principle: Do your work yourself. Do not share your work with others, if they need help, give them hints or guidelines. If you get a lot of help from some online source, cite it! If you get caught with a clear case of plagiarism: If there are no previous problems depending on the situation you might get away with just getting 0 points for the task and get a warning from us. If the problem appears many times or we know that you have already warnings from other courses, an official warning follows. If you have already other official warnings, this can lead to expelling. We will be using automatic plagiarism detection programs to avoid and detect these situations! Homework format and grading Your homework submission is always done in two parts: The report (HTML or pdf). The code (.py, .java, etc., or if you have many files, then .zip). Report format Each week you will have to submit a pdf or HTML report with the solved tasks. Other formats will not be accepted (e.g. doc, Matlab, excel etc.) An example of a solution could be the following: Example solution Δ . Tools you could use to create a report: Word (e.g. Google docs, save as pdf); LaTeX , e.g. Overleaf for online editing, Texmaker for offline editing; If you use Python, Jupyter notebooks might be useful. You can write code in the notebook and then download the notebook as pdf/HTML. To save as PDF, you need to install some tex engine or if you find it troublesome use print option to save as pdf; You can also solve homework on paper and make photo snapshots to include in the final PDF report. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused