<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/cg-pro/spring/Main/HomePage</LINK>
Arvutigraafika projekt - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Arvutigraafika projekt (MTAT.03.328) EN Logi sisse Arvutigraafika projekt 2023/24 kevad Main Projects Topics Results and Schedule Formatting Hints Links MTAT.03.328 Computer Graphics Project Time : Monday 14:15 - 16:15 (see the schedule ) Place : Delta, room 2006 Questions : Daniel Nael (daniel.nael@ut.ee) Chat : Discord , aine.ati.arvutigraafika@lists.ut.ee Reels videos Awesome projects The CG and Gamedev Student's Courses Map This course is meant for working on a computer graphics related project. It can be your own project or you can work on any of other proposed projects. Main purpose is the organization of project work, so it would be nice if you are motivated to achieve some result ( ie develop specific features) in your project and are interested in the technologies needed for you. Those can be for example: Lower level API-s like OpenGL , WebGL , DirectX Mid-level libraries like Three.js , Allegro , PyGame Higher level software like Unreal Engine 4 , Unity , Blender The CG reel video shows projects done previously: Other reels. Requirements / Grading To get a positive grade for the course the student will need to: Create a small project plan (deadline 26.02). You should have a plan for the semester that explains, what is your project. Plan should be at least 1-2 pages long and can be written on the course page, a README.md in GitHub, or just a PDF. It should include the following: Goals of the project. What are the desired outcomes? Required technologies. Foreseen difficulties. Write also the 1st Milestone. If you can not produce a project plan for the deadline, you earn a strike . Set up and complete 2 week long milestones (6 in total) . Throughout the semester plan out a development iteration cycle for 2 weeks. The goals need to be written and presented to others. After 2 weeks you need to present the fulfillment of those goals. You should estimate roughly 6h of individual work per 2 weeks. Update the project page with repo and build links, images, progress reports etc. Optionally you can defend multiple future milestones together. If you are unsuccessful in achieving the short-term goals set out for yourself, you earn a strike . Present your final result (TBA) . After you have completed (hopefully) all milestones, you need to present the project to others. In the final presentation you can: Compare the result with the initial project plan Discuss the difficulties encountered Show the progress made Demonstrate the result Also add a short 1-2 minute video of your results to your project page. If you do not do the final presentation, you can not pass the course. If you do not do attend other presentations, you earn a strike . If you have earned more than 3 strikes , you can not pass the course. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused