<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/cloud/spring/Main/Plagiarism</LINK>
Pilvetehnoloogia - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Pilvetehnoloogia (LTAT.06.008) EN Logi sisse Pilvetehnoloogia 2023/24 kevad Main Lectures Practicals Plagiarism Policy Results Submit Homework Plagiarism policy The practical session tasks are meant to be solved alone. 
If you struggle with something you are welcomed to write to the Slack channel or ask directly from TA's. 
You are of course allowed to discuss the main ideas with other students, but you have to solve the tasks by yourself, it shouldn't be a team effort. 
This is necessary because of the format of the course, which is very strongly based on individual work so if you don't do it you will not acquire all the knowledge you need during the course. If a considerable part of your solution is based on some material you found online (which is not the best way to learn if you are asked to implement it yourself!), you must add a citation to that source, otherwise, it could also be called as plagiarism. So in principle : Do your work yourself. Do not share your work with others, if they need help, give them hints or guidelines. If you get a lot of help from some online source, cite it! When you get caught with a clear case of plagiarism: If there are no previous problems depending on the situation you might get away with just getting 0 points for the task and get a warning. If the problem appears multiple times (inside this course or other courses), an official warning will follow. And may result in failing the course. If you have already other official warnings, this can lead to expelling. (Plagiarism rules adopted from Algorithmics course: https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2020/algorithmics/fall/Main/Plagiarism ) Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused