<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/SCML/spring/Main/Presentations</LINK>
Masinõppe erikursus - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Masinõppe erikursus (MTAT.03.317) EN Logi sisse Masinõppe erikursus 2023/24 kevad Main Schedule Presentations Links Presentations Each student will do one paper/topic presentation during the course, due to the amount of enrolled students being sufficient for that. Everyone must choose one paper/topic to present from the provided list. The list will be filled in a first-come first-served basis. Please find the list (log into courses to see the link) .  and mark both your preferred date and topic using your pseudonym (please don't use your real name). You can find your pseudonym in this link . If it turns out that there are schedule conflicts we will resolve them during the first session. Suggestions of papers and topics are very welcome and may be proposed in the form or to the lecturer. Auditing students and participants are also welcome to pick a topic and present it if they so desire. We have at least two weeks reserved for it towards the end of the course. Presentation format What is expected from you during your presentation: That you go through the paper or topic chosen and prepare a comprehensive presentation of between 30 minutes to 1 hour about it. When presenting a paper, feel free to add information not provided in the paper in order to better explain it if need be. Related content that you think is important for others to know, and maybe eventually more updated than what is presented in the paper, is also good to include. More specifically, the paper presentation should touch on the following points: What is the motivation of the paper? What is the novelty of the paper? What does it aim to improve? Explain the methodology. What are the results? What questions did you have about the paper and what was confusing? Your opinion on the paper. If you want to go beyond, feel free to implement the paper and show it during your presentation (especially if the code is provided with the article), or any other experiments that you feel inspired to try out after reading it, whether it uses ChatGPT or any other LLM. When presenting about a general topic, focus on building a presentation that encompasses mostly the state-of-the-art of that topic currently. Try to bring examples and implementations of things you mention. It is also totally fine and a good idea to mention and briefly explain papers that support  your assertions in the presentation. A few more general pointers for the presentation: Remember your audience! Try to explain things so it would be understandable to other students who didn't read the paper or don't know about the topic. It is better to make it simpler rather than too complicated. Make the presentation engaging! Show us pictures, implementations, etc, and try to build your presentation around these. After the presentation, we will have around 30 to 45 minutes of discussions/questions about it or any other related point. Evaluation methodology For enrolled students, in order to pass the course it is required that you: As explained before, pick a topic, build your seminar and present in the aforementioned format; Come up with three different questions (could be more, but not too many more) related to the topic and make a google form with them. You can select what kind of answers, format, etc, you wish at your discretion, but these questions do not need to be overly complicated. Instead, you should aim to make questions whose answers will lead other people to better understand the topic/article. Send the form to the lecturer, who will post them in the webpage, in the Schedule tab. Other enrolled students will access the form and answer them. You will them grade their answer in a simple manner (1 point if satisfactory answer, 0.5 if halfway there or so, etc), and submit the results to the lecturer. The deadline for this is until a week after the course's last meeting, Jun 11. Students that score at least 50% in the total amount of points answering the form questions, attend at least 75% of the sessions and present their seminar will pass the course. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused