<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/CS4CS/spring</LINK>
Keerukusteadus arvutiteadlastele - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Keerukusteadus arvutiteadlastele (LTAT.02.029) EN Logi sisse Keerukusteadus arvutiteadlastele 2023/24 kevad About Timetable Homeworks Project ideas Complexity Science for Computer Scientists This course aims to equip you with a deep understanding of the main concepts and tools of complexity science and to enhance your ability to apply these concepts within the field of computer science, thereby broadening your interdisciplinary skills. Syllabus - Week 1: Introduction to Complexity Science - Week 2: Entropy, Information, and Thermodynamics - Understanding the Basics - Week 3: Where is the information? - Week 4: Complexity and Emergence - The Birth of New Patterns - Week 5: Scaling and Power Laws - Unveiling the Universality - Week 6: Threshold Phenomena - The Tipping Points - Week 7: Phase Transitions - The Dynamics of Change - Week 8 & 9: Dynamical Systems and Chaos - Predictability in Unpredictability - Week 10 & 11: Pattern Formation - The Geometry of Nature - Week 12: Collective Behaviour - From Individual to Collective Dynamics - Week 13: Complex Networks - The Web of Connections - Week 14: Adaptation and Learning - The Evolution of Systems - Week 15: Evolution - An Engine of Complexity - Week 16: Conclusions and Future Perspectives in Complexity Science Prerequisites To enjoy this course it is recommended to be Physics/Math oriented, to know programming, and to be curious about complex systems and interdisciplinarity. Organization The lectures are held in Delta room 1004 on Wednesdays at 2:15-3:45 pm . The course content consists of a set of lectures/discussions. The grading is differentiated depending on the results of a test and project. The idea of a project is to implement some concepts covered during the course. To pass the course one has to: pass test, and participate in a project. Materials Lecture 1. Video: Video 1 .  Slides: Lecture 1 Lecture 2. Video: For some reason recording from Panopto for Lecture 2 could not be processed. Slides: Lecture 2 Lecture 3. Video: Video 3 .  Slides: Lecture 3 Lecture 4. Video: Thanks to Panopto there is no video for this lecture.  Slides: Lecture 4 Lecture 5. Video: Video 5 .  Slides: Lecture 5 Lecture 6. Video: Ask Panopto why there is no video for this lecture.  Slides: Lecture 6 Contacts Raul Vicente, raulvicente@gmail.com , room 3100. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused