<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/aiprohealth/fall</LINK>
Winter school Data Science and AI in Healthcare 2023 - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Winter school Data Science and AI in Healthcare 2023 (LTAT.TK.058) EN Logi sisse Winter school Data Science and AI in Healthcare 2023 2023/24 sügis About AIProHealth Winter School Agenda Course organisation Course Materials Elevating Healthcare through Artificial Intelligence Innovation Explore the cutting edge of Artificial Intelligence in healthcare. Create solutions that drive the next generation of healthcare innovation in this practical, hands-on programme. Through gaming, pitching and real-world case studies, you’ll build a prototype for a digital medical device (DMD) eligible for CE marketing. You’ll also gain a deep understanding of the regulatory landscape for developing DMDs that meet EU healthcare system standards. With the skills you’ll acquire in this programme, you’ll be ready to establish or join a sustainable start-up – and make your mark in the dynamic world of AI and healthcare. Europe. Online face-to-face course : 4. december – 8. december 2023. Course goal : Explore the cutting edge of Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare. Create solutions that drive the next generation of healthcare innovation in this practical, hands-on programme. During this course you will get familiar with the following topics: Innovation in AI and design thinking Introduction to AI and handson practice. Running and validating a model Data collection and cleaning Ethical, legal and societal aspects of AI in healthcare Getting your model into the clini Format : School consists of 3 parts: leveling online courses, face-to-face week and a hackathon. Before the face-to-face Winter School, you must pass two self-paced online courses, which were be sent to you after the registration. For the hackathon, you are welcome to register as a team. Hackathon mainly aims at the prototyping of the idea that you have developed during face-to-face week and presenting this prototype to jury at the end of the event. In case you have questions about the event, please contact: maria.malk@ut.ee. * Winter school is designed in collaboration with the University of Gröningen and is  funded by the European Institute of Innovation and technology. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused