<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/infsec/fall</LINK>
Infoturve - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Infoturve (MTAT.07.028) EN Logi sisse Infoturve 2023/24 sügis Home Lectures & labs Homework & course rules Terminology Exam Links Information security MTAT.07.028 This introductory course aims to give the students an overview of practical information security problems and teach them to recognise the problems/threats related to information security. Students from all fields are welcome to attend as technical skills are not a prerequisite for taking this course. After successfully completing the information security course the student: can assess password complexity and knows how to manage passwords has an overview of authentication methods and usages of cryptography knows where and how data encryption is used knows how to maintain anonymity has an overview of ways to back up data recognizes simple social engineering attempts has a technical overview of the Estonian ID-card and e-voting understands security risks involved in using smart devices has an overview of technical, web-based and wireless (WiFi) attacks knows how to send encrypted and signed e-mails Course info Information security is a 3 ECTS course with a differentiated final assessment. The lectures are interactive and allow the students to participate in the discussion. Information about the content of the lectures can be found from here . The lectures are categorized into three main areas. The first group of lectures gives an overview of ways on how to protect your data and privacy. The second group of lectures gives an overview of public key cryptography and its applications. The third group of lectures starts with authentication and then focuses on different kinds of attacks (social engineering, web attacks, other technical attacks, wireless security and attacks against mobile networks). Each group of topics has a written homework that also involves extra reading. In addition, there will be a test in Moodle for each lecture to motivate the students to attend the lectures and read the lecture materials. A brief overview of the grading system can be found at the end of this page. Detailed information about the grading system can be found from: Homework & course rules . The course ends with an exam. More info about the exam can be found on the left menu: exam . Teaching staff: Kristjan Krips krips(ät)ut(dot)ee , @krips_k Riivo Talviste riivo_t(ät)ut(dot)ee Grading The grading is done in the standard way using the 100 point scale. Points are given for the work during the semester and for the final exam. The homework tasks and lab exercises are worth 35 points , an essay 10 points , and tests 20 points . In addition, lecturers may assign bonus points. Thus, it is possible to collect 65 points before the exam and at most 40 points from the exam. However, the student has to collect at least 40 points to be allowed to attend the exam. More information about the rules regarding the homework tasks, tests, and the essay can be found from the menu on the left: Homework & course rules . A - excellent (91 -100%) B - very good (81 - 90%) C - good (71 -80%) D - satisfactory (61 - 70%) E - pass (51 - 60%) F - fail (0 - 50%) Relevant courses In case you already have the basic knowledge regarding information security and cryptography, then the following technical courses may be of interest: Applied Cryptography (MTAT.07.017) Introduction to Wireless Security (LTAT.04.006) Privacy-preserving technologies (LTAT.04.007) Computer Security (LTAT.06.002) [given only in Estonian] Secure Programming Techniques (MTAT.07.015) Research Seminar in Cryptography (MTAT.07.022) Cryptology I (MTAT.07.002) Cryptographic Protocols (MTAT.07.014) Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused