<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/FundamentalsAD/spring/Main/HomePage</LINK>
Autonoomse juhtimise alused - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Autonoomse juhtimise alused (LTAT.06.011) EN Logi sisse Autonoomse juhtimise alused 2023/24 kevad Overview Meetings Links Overview In the context of robotics in general, "autonomous" refers to the ability of a robot to operate without the intervention of a human operator. And the same definition applies to autonomous driving i.e. the ability of a vehicle to drive itself without the intervention of a human. This is an introductory course to autonomous driving. It covers different techniques and sub-systems needed to endow vehicles with autonomy. This includes the ability of a vehicle to perceive its environment, map its environment and localize itself within a map, plan its motion in its environment, execute that motion smoothly, as well as detect, model and predict behavior of other agents present in its environment. Course objectives Upon completion of the course, a student will be able to: Implement map-based localization using particle filtering Implement SLAM on simulated exteroceptive and proprioceptive data Explain different planning strategies for robot motion planning Implement a control strategy for lateral position control Describe challenges in behavior modelling in autonomous driving Understand the pros and cons of different exteroceptive sensing systems used in autonomous driving Understand the steps involved in employing a sensing system Topics covered in the course Localization Mapping Simultaneous localization and mapping Motion planning Control Sensing and perception Sensor fusion Interaction and behavior modelling End-to-end approaches Evaluation Course evaluation/grading is based on weekly lab assignments (delivered in the form of reports and code) and three oral exams. Contact Naveed Muhammad ( naveed.muhammad@ut.ee ) Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused