<LINK>https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2023/gamedev/fall</LINK>
Arvutimängude loomine ja disain - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Arvutimängude loomine ja disain (MTAT.03.263) EN Logi sisse Arvutimängude loomine ja disain 2023/24 sügis Main Lectures Homework-1 Homework-2 Homework-3 Labs Lab1 Introduction to Unity Lab2 Space Game part 1 Lab3 Space Game part 2 Lab4 Unity Components Lab5 Project Setup Lab6 Tower Defence Lab7 Tower Defence GUI & Buildings Lab8 Tower Defence Content Lab9 Blender Tree Lab10 Sounds Lab11 Animations Lab12 Level Design Lab13 Editor Extensions Lab14 Lighting Lab15 Procedural Generation Projects Design Document Peer Review Links MTAT.03.263 Computer Game Development and Design Lectures : Monday at 12:15 (Delta room 1026) Lab sessions : Group 1 - Wednesday at 10.15 (Delta room 2006) Group 2 - Wednesday at 12.15 (Delta room 2006) Questions : Jaanus Jaggo (jjaggo@ut.ee) Raimond Tunnel (jee7@ut.ee) Discord Server : Log in to see the Discord link. The course will teach the main principles of game design and provide hands-on experience in indie game development. You will learn how to design and evaluate game concepts, write design documents and set up a feasible project plan. You will experience how much time game development takes and learn to set your goals accordingly. You will also learn game development in the Unity 3D game engine. But this course requires you to have previous programming experience. The programming language we are using is C#, but you don't have to have experience with this language particularly. By the end of the course, you have finished and polished one smaller video game. You have also experienced the whole development lifecycle and know the main principles of a good game design. Grading To successfully complete the course you will need to: Lecture questions lectures . Lectures will teach you general game design concepts and give you tips to make a good and well-balanced game. Lectures often contain analysis exercises and discussions. A total of 10 points (10% of your grade) will be granted for taking part in the e-lectures and answering given questions. Solve tasks . We are providing you with a number of smaller development tasks in Lab sessions . These tasks will teach you the Unity game engine and prepare you for your project. In addition, there are also 3 homeworks regarding the first lectures where you have to design some parts of your game. Solving these tasks will grant you 30 points (30% of the grade). All tasks have a one-week deadline and they have to be submitted before the next practise session or lecture depending on where they were given, failing to do so will result in 0 points for that homework. Complete a game project . You will have to develop a smaller game project in teams of 3 (up to 4 in exceptional cases) students. Successful completion will give you 60 points (60% of the grade). Game jam bonus points. You can earn additional points for participating in a game jam: UT game jam TBA The final score is obtained as the sum of all points. The point score is then mapped to the F-A scale in the traditional manner (91+ = A, 81-90 = B, etc) Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused