<LINK>https://nail.cs.ut.ee/</LINK>
Natural and Artificial Intelligence Lab – University of Tartu Research People Publications Courses Natural & Artificial Intelligence Lab Meet our people Research Where AI meets natural intelligence In the age of artificial intelligence, natural human intelligence is underrated. We believe that if we want to develop AI tools that are intelligent, we have to try to figure out how our brain does it. And the other way around, too: if we want to understand how our brain works, it is informative to investigate how deep neural networks work and what they lack. Hence, we combine AI and deep learning with neuroscience, physics, and psychology. People Our researchers and PhD students Prof. Raul Vicente Principal Investigator Jaan Aru Principal Investigator Kadi Tulver Researcher Madis Vasser Researcher Marharyta Domnich PhD student Taavi Kivisik PhD student Mary-Ann Kubre PhD student Tarun Khajuria PhD student K. Kristjan Kaup PhD student Kristjan-Julius Laak PhD student Taavi Luik PhD student Jesus Reyes PhD student Publications Top 3 Vicente, R., Wibral, M., Lindner, M. et al. (2011). Transfer entropy—a model-free measure of effective connectivity for the neurosciences . J Comput Neurosci 30, 45–67. Tampuu, A., Matiisen, T., Kodelja, D., Kuzovkin, I., Korjus, K., Aru, J., … & Vicente, R. (2017). Multiagent cooperation and competition with deep reinforcement learning . PloS one, 12(4), e0172395. Aru, J., Aru, J., Priesemann, V., Wibral, M., Lana, L., Pipa, G., … & Vicente, R. (2015). Untangling cross-frequency coupling in neuroscience . Current opinion in neurobiology, 31, 51-61. Recent 3 Aru, J., Labash, A., Corcoll, O., & Vicente, R. (2023). Mind the gap: Challenges of deep learning approaches to Theory of Mind . Artificial Intelligence Review , 1-16. Suzuki, M., Pennartz, C. M., & Aru, J. (2023). How deep is the brain? The shallow brain hypothesis . Nature Reviews Neuroscience , 1-14. Aru, J., Larkum, M., & Shine, J. M. (2023). The feasibility of artificial consciousness through the lens of neuroscience . Trends in Neurosciences . Courses We teach in the institute of computer science Artificial neural networks 2023 spring NAI seminar Artificial and Natural Intelligence course Since 2022 autumn Funding Cardiovascular Stress Impacts On Neuronal Function. Funder: Estonian Research Council Transparent, Reliable and Unbiased Smart Tool for AI. Funder: European Commission Contextual uncertainty and representation learning in machine perception. Funder: Estonian Research Council The processing cycle of human intelligence on the behavioral, neural and algorithmic level. Funder: Estonian Research Council ICT program. Funder: European Social Fund Contact us raulvicente@gmail.com / jaan.aru@gmail.com Institute of Computer Science, University of Tartu, Estonia Narva mnt 18, 51009 Tartu, Estonia