<LINK>https://sandbox.cs.ut.ee</LINK>
Sandbox SANDBOX For Students Why join? Courses Completed projects For Partners Why join? Our partners Testimonials Completed projects How to join? Community Events Blogposts Courses Projects Team Meet the team Friends & collaborators Digital Product Management education hot-spot in Tartu unitartucs.sandbox Our Mission Our mission is to empower the next generation of digital product managers by providing the best education possible. Passion At Sandbox, we share the passion for Design Thinking and Digital Product Management Impact We solve real-world problems and create change to be proud of People Our user-centered approach always puts people in the center of our ideas For Students Sandbox offers students a set of courses that focus on Digital Product Management and Design Thinking.
                 In Sandbox, you can acquire theoretical knowledge as well as practical skills working on real-life problems provided by our industry partners. Learn more For Industry Partners Our students, the task force of future changemakers and innovative thinkers will tackle your company’s actual problems.
                 We help you adjust your point of view, try a different approach or get out of your comfort zone. Learn more Community We are building a local design thinking community at Sandbox.
    We focus on the local community of students, alumni and partners as well as international cooperation, which provides students with the opportunity to participate in global design and product development projects.
    We strive to create a shared understanding of how to spark and support innovation. Learn more The space Sandbox programme runs in a 300 square meter space that offers diverse and creative study and work environment at the Delta Centre of the University of Tartu. The goal of the Sandbox space and programme is to inspire students to generate and test their ideas in a supportive environment where making mistakes is not considered a failure but a step towards innovative solutions. Delta centre room 3092, 3rd floor Narva mnt. 18 51009 Tartu, Estonia sandbox@ut.ee unitartucs.sandbox