About us — Autonomous Driving Lab Autonomous Driving Lab Discover ADL The Lab Research Teaching Blog Discover ADL We are the Autonomous Driving Lab — see what it is that we do. Spoiler: we make cars drive. By themselves. About us Meet our team Media About us The Autonomous Driving Lab of the University of Tartu was founded in 2019 in cooperation with the Estonian mobility company Bolt. We have set ourselves three overarching goals, one for each area that is of importance to us. Technology Evaluate the current state of autonomous driving and mobility technology in terms of readiness of productization. Research Do world-class research in data-driven autonomous driving and mobility technologies. Education Prepare future workforce for the up-and-coming autonomous driving industry in Estonia. Autonomous Driving Lab street demo (September 2020) Working principles There are many ways of getting from A to B, just as there are many alternative approaches we could take to fulfill our goals. Thus, we follow certain principles that guide us in our day-to-day work and help us make decisions. We prioritize AI and aim for true autonomy We focus on the development of software, as opposed to the development of hardware. When it comes to software, we are most interested in harnessing the potential of artificial intelligence and machine learning. We have set our sights on working towards full autonomy, rather than facilitate driver assistance. We embrace open-source and want our research to manifest in physical experiments We mainly focus on data-driven (machine learning based) methods in self-driving software, but also make use of the best that classical algorithms have to offer. We make use of open-source software as much as possible and aim to make contributions of our own. We want our research in self-driving technologies to be grounded in the real world and aim to include practical experiments in our research papers and theses. We gladly collaborate with others, be it individuals or institutions, private or public We involve students in our activities at every step by creating courses, study materials, competitions, supervising theses, providing internships, etc. We aim to collaborate with top research groups in other universities by exchanging students. We’ll gladly share experiences by arranging visits, workshops and other events. We welcome different organizations to come and harness our platform to validate their technology. For example, we let companies test their software on our car, we share our maps with them, etc. We want to realize the potential of Estonia to be the preeminent location for testing self-driving tech We want to make Tartu the best city in the world to trial self-driving technologies, e.g. cover the entire Tartu with HD maps, create a simulation of the entire Tartu, etc. More broadly, we believe Estonia has an unique environment for validating self-driving cars due to flexible legislation and diverse weather conditions, and we aim to promote that. Autonomous Driving Lab Narva mnt 18, room 3095 51009 Tartu, Estonia adl@ut.ee Autonomous Driving Lab Discover ADL About us Meet our team Media The Lab Vehicle Software Simulation Parking lot Demo track Research Research areas Publications Projects Teaching Courses Thesis topics Defended theses Minicar Challenge The Rally Estonia Challenge