<LINK>https://mc.cs.ut.ee/radon-data-pipeline-webinar-automating-data-movement-in-cloud/</LINK>
Webinar on RADON Data Pipeline: Automating data movement in cloud – Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory Skip to content Menu Home Research Projects Publications Theses Defended theses Teaching People Jobs IoT Lab Wiki Webinar on RADON Data Pipeline: Automating data movement in cloud All related materials and recorded videos can be found here . Hello, We’d like to invite you all to the webinar we have put together for June 25, 2021: RADON Data Pipeline: Automating data movement in Cloud , to discuss data pipeline technology offered by RADON framework with a use case. The webinar is split into two parts. In the first part, Dr. Pelle Jakovits , University of Tartu, will introduce the RADON framework and its data pipeline tool developed by the team at the institute. You will have an insightful view of the capabilities and out-of-box approach adopted by the RADON data pipeline tool to avoid vendor lock-in issues while migrating and processing on-the-fly data in a cross-cloud platform. In the second part, Dr. Chinmaya Dehury , University of Tartu, will demonstrate the tool with RADON IDE , including designing and deploying the TOSCA based data pipeline service template. Some of the supported platforms that will be demonstrated in this webinar are MinIO, AWS Lambda, Google Cloud, Azure function, OpenStack, etc. Date : June 25, 2021 Time : 11:00 CET  [ convert to local time ] Duration : ~45 mins Register Here (closed) Please register yourself at NO cost to participate in the webinar. The registration information will be used to send you the reminder and the Zoom link to attend the webinar. You will receive the Zoom link 2 hours before the webinar starts. RADON | UTR | ICS | MCLab 2019 © Copyrights RADON Contact: Pelle Jakovits Acting Head of Mobile & Cloud Lab Tel: +372 737 6419 Narva mnt 18, Room 3040 Tartu 51009, Estonia Dr. Satish Srirama Honorary Head of Mobile & Cloud Lab Institute of Computer Science , University of Tartu Quick Links RADON Data Pipeline Webinar Institute Logo & Powerpoint template UT’s Data Repository Meta Log in Entries feed Comments feed WordPress.org © 2024 Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory • Powered by GeneratePress Scroll back to top