<LINK>https://mc.cs.ut.ee/iot-lab/</LINK>
IoT Lab – Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory Skip to content Menu Home Research Projects Publications Theses Defended theses Teaching People Jobs IoT Lab Wiki IoT Lab The Internet of Things laboratory  (IoT lab) deals with introducing and popularizing the concept of IoT – the benefits, challenges and current solutions. IoT projects such as “ SmartEnCity ” – the Smart City project in Tartu – deal with key IoT issues: managing large amounts of data and devices while enhancing environmental impact and using resources effectively. Smart solutions in personal medicine, for instance, need to ensure security while transferring sensitive personal data. In addition to a general introduction to the domain, the IoT lab aims to: increase the visibility of work at the Mobile- & Cloud Computing research group provide an IoT test facility for use by students and other researchers IoT lab has 2 rooms in Delta building – 2018 and 2019. Devices, dev. kits The IoT lab possesses various infrastructure: development kits (Arduino, Raspberry Pi, etc), Smart Home sensors & actuators, smartphones, IP-cameras, which students/researchers can use in projects and thesis works. The establishing of this lab has been supported by Telia Eesti AS. Find a more detailed list of available devices here . If you are interested in collaborating with us or have an idea for a project, contact the head of the lab Satish Srirama (srirama@ut.ee) or PhD student Jakob Mass (jakob.mass@ut.ee). A view of the Smart Home room in the Delta building. A 3D representation of the IoT lab rooms in Delta. Satish Srirama giving a presentation during the initial opening of IoT lab, 2016. Visitors checking out devices and kits during the opening event of the IoT lab, 2016 Contact: Pelle Jakovits Acting Head of Mobile & Cloud Lab Tel: +372 737 6419 Narva mnt 18, Room 3040 Tartu 51009, Estonia Dr. Satish Srirama Honorary Head of Mobile & Cloud Lab Institute of Computer Science , University of Tartu Quick Links RADON Data Pipeline Webinar Institute Logo & Powerpoint template UT’s Data Repository Meta Log in Entries feed Comments feed WordPress.org © 2024 Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory • Powered by GeneratePress Scroll back to top