<LINK>https://mc.cs.ut.ee/projects/</LINK>
Projects – Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory Skip to content Menu Home Research Projects Publications Theses Defended theses Teaching People Jobs IoT Lab Wiki Projects RADON Rational decomposition and orchestration for serverless computing ( RADON ) project is aimed at creating a DevOps framework to create and manage microservices-based applications that can optimally exploit serverless computing technologies. University of Tartu is specifically interested in developing tools that facilitate in designing and orchestrating data pipeline applications that involve serverless entities. Read More Energy-Efficient Internet of Things Interconnecting the physical things to IoT systems in an energy-efficient manner. Read More Middleware, Trust and IoT Applications The goal of this project is to overcome the challenges of cyber-physical systems in the Internet of Things. The challenges include: interoperability, autonomous machine-to-machine communication, automatic configuration, energy efficiency, trustworthiness etc. Read More Big Data Internet of Things Investigate, develop and validate an adaptive middleware-based management system that can provide a reliable, scalable and cost-efficient linkage to leverage IoT with Big Data cloud.

As part of the project we are participating in Estonian Centre of Excellence in ICT Research (EXCITE). Read More Sensor Data and Image Processing Investigates the efficient transportation of sensor/multimedia data to the cloud and its processing (parallel algorithms) by applying sophisticated mining techniques. Read More Asynchronous Notification Services for Mobiles (ANSM) Analyzes the adaption of new reliable, flexible and scalable mechanisms (e.g. XMPP) for real-time communication in mobile-to-cloud and cloud-to-mobile scenarios. Read More DAMA Dynamic Algorithm Modeling Application for choosing the most suitable distributed computing frameworks Read More IoT and Smart Solutions Lab The goal of the project is to acquire infrastructure and establishing the IoT and Smart Solutions Lab, with industry cooperation. The lab will facilitate the students in experimenting with the respective devices and design innovative projects in driving the Estonian startup culture forward. Read More WiseWare A platform for Goods Monitoring in Industrial IoT. This platform enables de-centralized, long-running IoT monitoring tasks by using Business Process Management System software and mobile devices. Read More Migrating Enterprise Applications to the Cloud This project aims to provide a complete framework for enterprise application providers to have their applications migrated and auto scaled on the cloud. Read More NEWT A fault tolerant BSP framework on Hadoop YARN. Read More Aneka Cloud Collaboration with The Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems (CLOUDS) Laboratory, University of Melbourne for utilizing Aneka Cloud for scientific computing Read More REMICS REMICS is an EU FP7 project. The goal of REMICS is to develop advanced model-driven methodology and tools for REuse and Migration of legacy applications to Interoperable Cloud Services. Read More Pervasive Mobile Applications Focuses on creating mobile applications (e.g. native, cross-browser, etc.) that involves the utilization of user context monitoring techniques (e.g. sensors), readable machine objects (QR-codes),  environmental electromechanical appliances (e.g.  Arduino) among others. Read More Desktop to Cloud Migration (D2CM) Desktop to Cloud Migration (D2CM)
Tool for directly migrating applications to the cloud Read More Stratus Distributed computing framework for large scale scientific applications and simulations. Read More ROBO M.D. EU INTERREG IVC funded “ROBO M.D. - Home care robot for monitoring and detection of critical situations” project. Read More Mobile Cloud Applications Studies the development of mobile applications (e.g. Android, iOS, Windows Phone 7 among others) that utilize data-intensive processing from the cloud and analyzes when to offload tasks to the cloud. Moreover, examines the use of new technologies such as HTML 5 for handling time-consuming operations from the mobile. Read More Mobile Cloud Middleware Focuses on empowering the mobile applications functionality by combining a diversity of cloud services (e.g. from the infrastructure level, platform level, etc.) located on different clouds (e.g. public, private, etc.) for achieving a common operation (aka multi-cloud operation) without overloading the mobile resources. Read More SciCloud SciCloud project studies the establishment of private clouds, migration and execution of scientific computing applications on the cloud, and adapting scientific computing problem/algorithms to frameworks amicable to the cloud like the MapReduce. Read More Mobile Host Mobile Host enables the provisioning of Web Services from mobile devices in a scalable and reliable fashion. In addition, Mobile Host aids in the orchestration of mobile-cloud-services by supporting a scalable and efficient asynchronous communication mechanism. Read More Mobile Web Service Discovery The project aims to develop an efficient and effective discovery mechanism to reduce the bottlenecks and to proceed with the mobile web service provisioning and invocation with success. Read More Meta Log in Entries feed Comments feed WordPress.org © 2024 Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory • Powered by GeneratePress Scroll back to top