<LINK>https://mc.cs.ut.ee/theses/</LINK>
Theses – Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory Skip to content Menu Home Research Projects Publications Theses Defended theses Teaching People Jobs IoT Lab Wiki If you wish to propose your own topic in a related field, please feel free to do so and contact us! Open theses topics for the 2023/2024 study year List of Supervisors Chinmaya Dehury Pelle Jakovits Topics on data processing Topics on IoT Making #smartenvironment smarter with #fog – #cloud computing platform A list of Updated Thesis Topics can be found in this Google Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/14SPgOTF6f8nw8bpxl-3RMbDxwELranK1_bYBK2jzoy8/edit?usp=sharing Contact: chinmaya.dehury@ut.ee , Delta building r3040 Go to top Internet of Things topics [Already taken] Knowledge graphs for cataloging and making sense of Smart City data (B, M) ( Pelle Jakovits ) Nowadays it is quite common for new buildings to have hundreds or even thousands of sensors that generate data. The same can be said for cities, where data about different systems, devices, vehicles, and people are being sensed and collected. Often this data is stored in a technical manner that is the most convenient for the actual hardware devices and networks that are used, but which makes it difficult to understand for humans and complicated to reuse in other applications. The goal of this topic is to investigate how to build both human- and machine-understandable data models for cataloging the data that is being collected in Smart Buildings (E.g. Delta building) and Smart Cities (e.g. Tartu), with the aim to simplify the understanding and reusability of the data. Synthetic IoT data generator for large scale IoT Device simulation (M) ( Pelle Jakovits ) This topic is related to the Cyber defence simulation of Internet of Things and Mobile Networks in the Cyber Range project. The student should evaluate extending open source tool for generating real-like IoT data based on  existing captured data traces and “play it back” to simulate real data in an IoT network. The goal is to design and create a solution which processes existing data traces and can generate similar behaving data stream with high-volume and frequency. It should also support customizing the generated data stream, including volume and frequency, structure (like ratios between the different types of sub-streams), randomizing certain fields of records. Reliability and performance of Open Source IoT platforms (B, M) ( Pelle Jakovits ) The goal of this topic is to analyse the reliability and performance of open source IoT platforms focusing on solutions that support large use cases (e.g not home automation but rather Smart City, devices deployed over large geographical locations). The main aspects to focus on are the performance, stability and the scope of features (e.g device integration, integration with external services, data processing and analytics, extensibility). The main questions to answer are: Which OS solutions in the market are the most suitable for supporting large Smart City use cases. How easy is to integrate new IoT devices. Are open source IoT frameworks mature enough for production systems and are they feasible alternatives to cloud-managed subscription-based IoT platforms. [Already taken] Real-time Smart Building data visualization (B) ( Pelle Jakovits ) The goal of this topic is to study approaches for creating so-called Digital Twins of large Smart buildings (e.g. Delta ) and design an approach for visualizing the state of the building based on the data collected from the building automation system and other sensors deployed there. Real-time Smart City data visualization (B/M) ( Pelle Jakovits ) The goal of this topic is to study approaches for creating so-called Digital Twins of whole cities and design an approach for visualizing the state of Tartu city based on the data collected from city sensors and services. Solution for sharing and publishing smart city open data for Tartu (B, M) ( Pelle Jakovits ) More than a TB of data has been collected by Tartu Smart City data repository in the Cumulocity IoT platform.  A previous thesis has developed tool(s) for collecting and publishing smart city data sets from the Cumulocity platform. The goal of this thesis is to further develop the approach and deploy a working solution that is able to handle the sharing and publishing of large amount of Smart City data. The solution should be able to handle data that is being updated continuously by sensors or other devices and systems deployed in the city and give the data owner tools and means to control how the data is made available. Evaluate the energy balance of buildings in Smart Cities (B/M) ( Pelle Jakovits ) The goal of this topic is to: Analyze data collected about the energy production and consumption of buildings in cities (e.g. Tartu) Build an approach or a model to estimate how much energy different types of buildings (taking into account types, purpose, sizes, location, etc;) are consuming. Compare the consumption estimates to previous results of to the estimated potential of maximum energy production from previous works and theses to analyse the Energy balance of buildings, city areas and city The results of the thesis could be an interactive dashboard providing an overview of differences between the energy balance of different city areas, building types, etc.;  suggestions for changing how the buildings are currently being designed and built; pipelines for performing a similar analysis in other cities. Go to top Contact: Pelle Jakovits Acting Head of Mobile & Cloud Lab Tel: +372 737 6419 Narva mnt 18, Room 3040 Tartu 51009, Estonia Dr. Satish Srirama Honorary Head of Mobile & Cloud Lab Institute of Computer Science , University of Tartu Quick Links RADON Data Pipeline Webinar Institute Logo & Powerpoint template UT’s Data Repository Meta Log in Entries feed Comments feed WordPress.org © 2024 Mobile & Cloud Computing Laboratory • Powered by GeneratePress Scroll back to top