Home - RESEARCH GROUP OF HEALTH INFORMATICS Skip to content Home Grants and projects Publications Software For students Menu Toggle Courses Thesis Internship Team EST RESEARCH GROUP OF HEALTH INFORMATICS RESEARCH GROUP OF HEALTH INFORMATICS Main Menu Home Grants and projects Publications Software For students Menu Toggle Courses Thesis Internship Team EST We believe that data-informed and evidence-based decisions can make healthcare more efficient, patient-friendly and cost-effective. Therefore, we work passionately to generate that evidence by conducting epidemiological studies , doing data analytics and developing analytical software in the healthcare domain. We have long-term experience and the best expertise and infrastructure in the region for health data analytics using OMOP and natural language processing. We are the lead of OHDSI Estonia. Furthermore, we like to share our knowledge with students, the science community and the public. Internship positions and thesis topics to bachelor’s and master’s students from various disciplines is provided continuously. And, of course, we are open to national and international co-operation. The main focus of our research and teaching is on the following: Health data analytics Personalised medicine OHDSI OMOP Health and treatment patterns 46 articles in scientific journals View all articles and posters 50 completed thesis View all completed thesis Internship offers If you are interested in internship position in health informatics, let us know! Based on your curriculum and interests we will find you suitable tasks to solve. Contact: Raivo Kolde Sulev Reisberg Sven Laur Thesis topics We offer a large number of areas/topics related to our overall research directions to understand and mine the health data, as well as genetic and lifestyle risk factors. Many topics come with a potential to link students to existing research projects, i.e. with the potential of funding good relevant work. Institute of Computer Science University of Tartu Narva mnt 18, Tartu ( Delta Centre ) health-informatics@ut.ee Copyright © 2024 University of Tartu Powered by Astra WordPress Theme