Contact - RESEARCH GROUP OF HEALTH INFORMATICS Skip to content Home Grants and projects Publications Software For students Menu Toggle Courses Thesis Internship Team EST RESEARCH GROUP OF HEALTH INFORMATICS RESEARCH GROUP OF HEALTH INFORMATICS Main Menu Home Grants and projects Publications Software For students Menu Toggle Courses Thesis Internship Team EST Home Contact Jaak Vilo Head of the research group Jaak.Vilo@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Professor Jaak Vilo, PhD, is an experienced research leader, with experience in interdisciplinary data science, bio- and health informatics. He has led many successful international and national projects, including research and infrastructure development ones. He has also had many administrative duties and led ELIXIR Estonia node development. He is ACM Senior member (the only one from Estonia). Vilo has supervised to completion 15 PhDs, one of the highest in Estonian IT, most completed PhDs continue successfully in research. Raivo Kolde Associate Professor of Health Informatics Raivo.Kolde@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Raivo Kolde, PhD, is an associate professor of health informatics. He has degrees in mathematical statistics and PhD in bioinformatics. He did a postdoc at the Harvard Medical School and worked at Philips Research North America. He has created several popular software tools for research and led collaborative projects with biological and clinical researchers. Currently the research interests are centred in doing observational clinical research using health record databases and developing computational methods for such research. 
. Sven Laur Associate Professor in Privacy-Preserving Data Sven.Laur@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Sven Laur, PhD, is an Associate Professor of privacy preserving data mining with strong focus on machine learning and text mining, as well the cryptographic aspects of privacy. He leads the  development of the EstNLTK toolkit for natural language processing in Estonian. He has so far supervised to completion 4 PhDs. Elena Sügis Lecturer in Health Informatics Elena.Sugis@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Elena Sügis, PhD, is an Assistant Professor of Health Informatics at the chair of Data Science with experience both in academia and industry. Today her main focus is to bridge the gap between innovative technologies and their real-life applications in healthcare. In her research, Elena is specialising in integrating and analysing biomedical data using conventional machine learning and deep learning methods. She has been creating data collections, and building ML models in research projects in various domains, such as embryonic stem cells, toxicology, immunology, oncology, and neurodegenerative disorders. Besides research, Elena considers it important to raise awareness of artificial intelligence and data science. For this purpose, she has led the creation of five AI and data science MOOCs with more than 4000 participants. She actively participates in the development of international AI and data science MOOCs for healthcare professionals. These courses help to gain knowledge about data literacy and applications of artificial intelligence in healthcare. Sulev Reisberg Research Fellow of Health Informatics Sulev.Reisberg@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Sulev Reisberg, PhD,  is a researcher in health informatics and personalised medicine. He is currently leading the collaboration on EHDEN and Health Sense projects, as well as development of national personalised medicine infrastructure development (PerMed). He has a deep knowledge of electronic health records, health registries and genetics - both from system development and analysis side. His current work focuses on reproducible health science, computational issues of personalised medicine, including pharmacogenetics, and clinical pathways mining. Kerli Mooses Research Fellow of Health Informatics Kerli.Mooses@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Kerli Mooses, PhD, is a researcher in health informatics. She has Master degrees in Public Health and in Conversion IT. Her PhD is in Sport Sciences. Currently her research focuses on observational clinical research using health record databases. Marek Oja Research Fellow of Health Informatics Marek.Oja@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Marek Oja, PhD, is a research software developer, and has PhD in physics. He is experienced in OMOP common data model for health data and tools development. His work focuses on developing the software and tools to manage and analyse the OMOP CDM data cohorts. Sirli Tamm Programmer Sirli.Tamm@ut.ee ETIS Sirli Tamm, MSc, is a research software developer. Her work mostly focuses on converting electronic health records and health insurance claims data into OMOP common data model to facilitate observational studies. In addition to development of ETL process, her responsibilities are also related to data profiling and data quality control. She is also involved in the effort of mapping locally used vocabularies into standardized vocabularies (e.g., to SNOMED, RxNorm, etc.). Dage Särg Programmer Dage.Sarg@ut.ee ETIS , Google Scholar Dage Särg, MA, is a computational linguist whose current main research interest is automatic information and relation extraction from free text fields of electronic health records using a combination of rule-based and machine learning methods. Maria Malk Programmer Maria.Malk@ut.ee Maarja Pajusalu Junior Research Fellow of Health Informatics Maarja.Pajusalu@ut.ee ETIS Maarja Pajusalu, MSc, is a PhD student and Junior Research Fellow of Health Informatics. Her research is focussed on developing visualisation methods (with R)  for research using medical data in OMOP common data model. Markus Haug Junior Research Fellow of Health Informatics Markus.Haug@ut.ee ETIS Markus Haug, MSc, is a doctoral student in health informatics. He – a junior researcher, specialises in patient treatment trajectories. His daily tasks include bits of software developing, data engineering and supervising. Ida Maria Orula Junior Research Fellow in Bioinformatics Ida.Maria.Orula@ut.ee Harry-Anton Talvik Junior Research Fellow of Health Informatics Harry-Anton.Talvik@ut.ee ETIS Hendrik Šuvalov Junior Research Fellow of Health Informatics Hendrik.Suvalov@ut.ee ETIS Kunnar Kukk Junior Research Fellow of Health Informatics Kunnar.Kukk@ut.ee Õie Renata Siimon Junior Research Fellow of Health Informatics Renata.Siimon@ut.ee Institute of Computer Science University of Tartu Narva mnt 18, Tartu ( Delta Centre ) health-informatics@ut.ee Copyright © 2024 University of Tartu Powered by Astra WordPress Theme