Programmeerimise alused - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Programmeerimise alused (MTAT.03.236) EN Logi sisse Programmeerimise alused 2023/24 sügis Home Grading Links Introduction to Programming This is an introductory programming course for IT law, Science & Technology, Quantitative Economy, Business Administration, Geoinformatics for Urbanised Society, Innovation and Technology Management students; the students of other departments who aim to pick up programming can also join the course. The course consists of video lectures of Charles Severance and practice sessions. Before each practice session, the students have to watch the video lectures, solve a test concerning the current topic in Moodle . Solve homework exercises and submit the programs to Lahendus on time, deadline every Monday 23:59 Estonian time. During the practice sessions, the main topics will be reviewed and some exercises will be solved. The students have to submit all programs written during the session right after it to Moodle . The online and in person practice sessions take place from week 2 to week 9. Information about the grading system is here . More detailed information will be given in the first practice session on week 2 (15.09.2023). Topics learned: Introduction. Expressions Conditional Execution Functions Iterations Strings Files Lists Graphics In case of any questions, post a message in the forum in Moodle or write to your supervisor: Reelika Suviste (reelika.suviste at ut.ee) Kristiina Keps (kristiina.keps at gmail.com) Svetlana Golovko (svetlana.golovko at ut.ee) Priit Paluoja (priit.paluoja at ut.ee) Kaspar Papli (kaspar.papli at ut.ee) Taniel Saarevet (taniel.saarevet at ut.ee) Henri Laats (henri.laats at ut.ee) Tips for success: We encourage you to discuss home assignments, specific algorithms, properties of algorithms, etc. with other students; we ask only that you do not look at any source code written by a different student, nor show your solution code to other students before the deadline . Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused