Postkvant Krüptograafia - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Postkvant Krüptograafia (LTAT.04.015) EN Logi sisse Postkvant Krüptograafia 2023/24 sügis Main Page Lectures Homeworks Sources Post-Quantum Cryptography Instructor : Sedat Akleylek Credits : 6 ECTS Language : English About the Course The aim of this course is to present the well-known quantum resistant cryptographic algorithms. In this course, we provide a snapshot for the post-quantum cryptography (PQC). We discuss encryption, key encapsulation/exchange and digital signature schemes. 
There are several cryptosystem families that include some problems or functions that cannot be solved in the presence of quantum computers. Explaining these cryptosystem families and examining their place in the standardization processes will guide this field. The scope of this course includes: The emergence process of the concept of the PQC will be examined. Also, the effects of PQC on traditional cryptosystems will be expressed. Quantum secure hard problems will be defined. Also some real-world scenarios will be given. Post-quantum secure cryptosystem families such as multivariate, code, lattice, and hash-based will be introduced reviewed. In the NIST standardization process, the place of these families and their evaluation criteria will be discussed. Open source post-quantum cryptography libraries will be introduced. This course will involve reading and writing of mathematical proofs. Requirements Introduction to cryptography knowledge is required. There is no need to know about quantum issues. Maturity in algorithm analysis and mathematics (espeically linear algebra, basic probability theory and number thoery) are needed. Basic programming skills are useful but not necessary at all. Grading Homeworks 			30% Project 			40% Final exam			30% There will be one set of "theory" homework assignments.
In the project assignment, the student should write a research report or implement one of the given algorithms. Reading/Resources There are no required textbooks. Research papers and lecture notes will be assigned throughout the semester. The following websites will be used: https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/post-quantum-cryptography https://openquantumsafe.org/liboqs/ Lectures will be in hybrid form. Office Hours will be by appointment. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused