Fuzzy logic and soft computing  - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Fuzzy logic and soft computing  (LTAT.02.005) EN Logi sisse Fuzzy logic and soft computing 2023/24 kevad Pealeht Loengud Viited Course info Responsible Lecturer:
Stefania Tomasiello (stefania.tomasiello@ut.ee; stefania.tomasiello@gmail.com) Teaching Assistant:
Muhammad Uzair (muhammad.uzair@ut.ee) The course starts with the introductory lecture on February 12, 2024. There will be no practice session during the first week. About the course The aim of this course is to introduce students to the main topics and some of the latest advancements in fuzzy logic and soft computing.
The following topics will be covered during the course: Fuzzy sets Zadeh’s Extension Principle and fuzzy numbers Fuzzy relations Fuzzy logic Fuzzy-rule based systems/Fuzzy Inference Systems Essentials of Artificial Neural Networks A brief introduction to Genetic Algorithms Combining Artificial Neural Networks, fuzzy sets and evolutionary computations Least-squares based approaches Fuzzy regression Fuzzy transform and data compression Brief introduction to fuzzy decision making Brief introduction to granular computing Assessment Non-differentiated (pass, fail, not present). Required: 2 mini-tests (up to 12 points, no time constraints, no penalties), 1 homework assignment (up to 14 points), 1 short presentation (up to 14 points), final project (up to 30 points). To pass: 51 points Materials Course announcements, study material and updates will appear in Moodle. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused