Programmeerimise alused II - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Programmeerimise alused II (MTAT.03.256) EN Logi sisse Programmeerimise alused II 2023/24 sügis Home Grading Links Introduction to Programming II This is a follow-up course to Introduction to Programming.
The course consists of video lectures (or reading materials) and practice sessions. Practical sessions of groups 1, 3, 4 and 5 will have sessions in class, group 2 will be held online using Zoom. Before each practice session, the video lectures or text material must be studied at home. Also, a test on the self-studied material must be solved in Moodle . During the practice sessions, the main topics will be reviewed and some exercises will be solved. The students should submit all programs written during the session right after it to Moodle . The students have to solve homework exercises and submit the programs into Lahendus; the corresponding logfiles into Moodle (deadline is every Monday 23:59 Estonian time). No late submission of homework will be allowed. The practice sessions take place from week 11 to week 15. The exam will be during week 16 and in January. Information about the grading system is here . More detailed information will be given during the first practice session on week 11. In case of any questions you can write to the forum in Moodle or ask the supervisors: Reelika Suviste (reelika.suviste at ut.ee) Svetlana Golovko (svetlana.golovko at ut.ee) Priit Paluoja (priit.paluoja at ut.ee) Kaspar Papli (kaspar.papli at ut.ee) Henri Laats (henri.laats at ut.ee) You have to do the first test before the first practice session and you can already start with the first homework, which we will also look during our first session. Number Before session Dates Topics During session Homework Additional information 1. Before session 1 17.11 Nested loops During session 1 Homework 1 2. Before session 2 24.11 Dictionaries During session 2 Homework 2 Project formulation 3. Before session 3 01.12 Tuples, sets During session 3 Homework 3 Project formulation deadline 4. Before session 4 08.12 Graphics Regular expressions During session 4 Homework 4 Project program Examples for the project: Tkinter 5. Before session 5 15.12 Recursion During session 5 Homework 5 Project deadline and presentation 6. Exam Exam rules Example test Example exercises Exams (registration in SIS): Dec 18 at 16:00-19:00 Jan 12 at 10:00-13:00 The resit time for those who need it will be: Jan 26 at 10:00-13:00 Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused