18th Estonian Summer School on Computer and Systems Science - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Esileht 18th Estonian Summer School on Computer and Systems Science EN Logi sisse 18th Estonian Summer School on Computer and Systems Science Homepage Registration Lectures and abstracts Lecture materials Student sessions Social activities Timetable Sponsors Photos Previous schools Contact ESSCaSS 2019 Dates: August 18th-22th 2019 (Sun-Thu) Location: Roosta Holiday Village , Estonia , map The scope The Estonian Summer School in Computer and Systems Science is an annual international event for PhD and MSc students, postdocs, faculty members. ESSCaSS is promoting the interdisciplinary education of graduate students specialising in (but not limited to) computer science, systems science, software engineering, artificial intelligence, and bioinformatics. These schools carry an essential role in doctoral education in Estonia. This year the school focuses on topics like Human-Computer Interaction, Deep Learning Natural Language Processing, Adaptive User Interfaces and Innovation. Academic lectures * Assoc. Prof. Antti Oulasvirta - Associate Professor, User interfaces, Aalto University * Ms. Mariana Romanyshyn - Technical Lead, Computational Linguist at Grammarly, Inc. * Prof. Adrian Kaehler - Giant.AI, Silicon Valley Deep Learning Group Guest talks * Adj. Prof. Stefania Tomasiello - Senior Research Fellow and Adjunct Professor with DISA-MIS, University of Salerno; Lecturer, Institute of Computer Science, University of Tartu * Session on Autonomous Driving Lab is held by Anne Jääger, Tambet Matiisen, Dmytro Fishman, Maksym Semikin, and Jan van Gent. Joint sessions with IEEE Estonia section IEEE ,  is the world’s largest technical professional organization dedicated to advancing technology for the benefit of humanity . IEEE is organized into local sections within geographic regions, Estonia section being one of them. This year we have joint sessions with IEEE Estonia section at ESSCaSS summer school. The main aim of the joint session is to bind the two already overlapping communities, ESSCaSS and IEEE, more strongly together and introduce the data science applications in humanities to our doctoral and Master's students. Student sessions There are "Student talks and Poster session" planned. The main aim of these activities is to get students actively involved in shaping the summer school. We hope that these sessions give them a possibility to improve their skills in presenting their topic, managing daily tasks more effectively, and sharing the most important information with each other. Social activities One of the most valuable resources in life is the network of contacts you have! Thus, we have organised some social activities to stimulate mingling, getting to know each other, and exchanging your ideas. Contacts: If You have any questions or problems regarding summer school, please contact us: e-mail esscass@ut.ee ESSCaSS Facebook page Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused