Tarkvaraprojekt - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Tarkvaraprojekt (LTAT.05.005) EN Logi sisse Tarkvaraprojekt 2023/24 sügis Main Lectures Deadlines Grading & Milestones Mentoring sessions ------------------------- Project Proposals Call for Projects Feed LTAT.05.005 Software Project (Tarkvaraprojekt) Lectures: Wednesdays, 10:15, Narva Mnt 18 - 1025 & online via BBB on Moodle Mentoring sessions: Wednesdays 12:15-16:00, online via BBB on Moodle (students can choose to attend their sessions of 13 and 20/9 in the meeting room 3087) Coordinators: Marinos Georgiadis, Kuldar Taveter Lecturer: Marinos Georgiadis Mentors: Marinos Georgiadis, NN (if necessary) In this course, you will undertake a software development project in teams of four students. The course will be carried out as a mixture of lectures and private consulting sessions for the student teams. Each team will have a mentor who will advise and follow-up the progress of the team throughout the semester. The aim of this project work is to give you hands-on exposure to contemporary software development practices and infrastructure, including rapid iterative development, version control, collaborative planning, issue tracking, test automation and continuous integration. You will be delivering software to a real customer with real requirements. Your task is to detail the requirements, create a plan for the development and delivery, and deliver accordingly. Your deliverables will be verified and validated both by the course coordinators and by the customer who proposed the project. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused