Keeletehnoloogia seminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Keeletehnoloogia seminar (MTAT.06.046) EN Logi sisse Keeletehnoloogia seminar 2023/24 sügis General Topics NLP seminar Place: Delta, 2047 (no online participation) Time: Friday 12.15-13.45 Coordinators: Mark Fišel, Agnes Luhtaru Questions: agnes.luhtaru@ut.ee This semester's seminar will focus on the latest advancements in NLP and the applications of NLP technologies. Our discussions will revolve around papers or blogs that have been published within the last year. Organization We will discuss one topic per week. The topics are broken down into subcategories, such as model architecture, data utilization, various experiments, related research, broader context, and usage examples, among others. Before each seminar: Skim the assigned paper (see Topics ) and select a subtopic of interest here . Dig deeper into the selected topic (read parts of the paper more closely, go through relevant related works or use the open-source models). Submit a half-page overview of your findings by Friday morning (at 9) before the seminar. The overview can be in free format (bullet points, thoughts, references with notes, etc.) but it should help you remember what you learned and explain it to others. Participate actively during the seminar; be ready to explain what you learned. While it's not obligatory, if you wish, you can create visual aids to share with the group. Please submit these along with your review, or be prepared to share them directly from your computer. The first seminar (September 8) is introductory and explains the course topic and organization. Requirements / Grading Passing requirements: Submit an overview for at least eight seminars . Participate actively in at least eight seminars (excluding the first introductory seminar). Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused