Introduction [MathWiki] Log In Trace:: Introduction MathWiki Search introduction Asymptotics The need for asymptotic notation: a case study Big Oh Big Omega Multiple variables Polynomial complexity The negligible, the noticeable and the overwhelming Divisibility and modular arithmetics Divisibility Primes and divisibility Greatest common divisor  and least common multiple Euclidean algorithm Extended Euclidean algorithm Modular arithmetics Finite fields What are rings and fields? Long division of polynomials The general way of constructing finite fields Isomorphisms, homomorphisms, automorphisms. Classification of all finite fields Computations in finite fields What is a group? Multiplicative group in finite fields Subfields Linear algebra 1. Matrices 2. Systems of linear equations and matrices 3. Gaussian elimination algorithm 4. Solving systems of linear equations via invertible matrices Number theory Probability theory Event and probability Probability of two events Conditional probability Total probability Expected value Inequalities Game notation Introduction About Mathwiki Mathwiki is a self-study environment, which consist, at the moment, of six topics: asymptotics , divisibility and modular arithmetics , finite fields , linear algebra , number theory , probability theory . These topics are the ones which most often are needed by students of informatics in their studies. For example, 
asymtotics for comparing performances of algorithms or programs (time efficiency, memory efficiency). Or 
modular arithmetics and finite field theory which teach us how to operate with bits - the basic building blocks 
of all programs. The understanding of bit-wise operations and their properties gives additional 
ways of creating better programs and computer systems. Probability theory gives us tools for analyzing risks 
of information systems and computers related security. Actually, the list of math knowledge needed in order to be a very good computer 
scientist, can not be limited to any list. And also the selected topics here are just a start. How to use Mathwiki? The topics are ordered alphabetically, and can be studied in any order. However, the topics are not completely 
independent of each other. Sometimes within a topic you can find the suggestion to read 
another topic before continuing. These suggestions are there for a reason: you may not understand the topic fully if 
you skip the suggested topic. Each topic consist of lessons. These lessons are meant for reading in the order they have been listed there. For moving on to the next lesson, you can use the link at the bottom the lesson. For moving back to any lesson you have always visited on the present day, you can use TRACE bar at the top. Each lesson contain several exercises which help you to understand the theory and lesson properly - do as many exercises as possible by yourself . Most of the exercises are equipped with an example solution (opened by clicking on the word “solution”). Check the solution only after you yourself have solved the exercise. As you know, there are mostly several ways of solving one and the same exercise. So, if your solution is different from the one give here, it does not mean its wrong. …… denotes definitions, import results and conclusions …… denotes a usual exercises or tasks meant for solving by the reader …… denotes a theory quiz, i.e. a important result in the corresponding theory meant to investigate by the reader Authors: Jaan Vajakas Aleksei Lissitsin Marje Johanson Sven Laur Dominique Unruh Peeter Laud introduction.txt · Last modified: 2014/01/02 10:56 by marje Contact: ati.comp@ut.ee