Finite fields [MathWiki] Log In Trace:: Finite fields MathWiki Search finite_fields Asymptotics The need for asymptotic notation: a case study Big Oh Big Omega Multiple variables Polynomial complexity The negligible, the noticeable and the overwhelming Divisibility and modular arithmetics Divisibility Primes and divisibility Greatest common divisor  and least common multiple Euclidean algorithm Extended Euclidean algorithm Modular arithmetics Finite fields What are rings and fields? Long division of polynomials The general way of constructing finite fields Isomorphisms, homomorphisms, automorphisms. Classification of all finite fields Computations in finite fields What is a group? Multiplicative group in finite fields Subfields Linear algebra 1. Matrices 2. Systems of linear equations and matrices 3. Gaussian elimination algorithm 4. Solving systems of linear equations via invertible matrices Number theory Probability theory Event and probability Probability of two events Conditional probability Total probability Expected value Inequalities Game notation Finite fields This topic introduces the algebraic concept of field . We shall give the precise definition of this algebraic structure and study the properties of finite fields . We shall find that in addition to the (infinite) field of real numbers that every schoolchild is familiar with, there exist many more. In cryptography, e. g. in encryption and computation of error-correcting codes, some of these fields have turned out to be very useful. On our way we shall also meet the algebraic structures ring and group . Suggestion : before moving on with the following lessons, see “Divisibility and modular arithmetics”. What are rings and fields? Long division of polynomials The general way of constructing finite fields Isomorphisms, homomorphisms, automorphisms. Classification of all finite fields Computations in finite fields What is a group? Multiplicative group in finite fields Subfields $+$ $\times$ finite_fields.txt · Last modified: 2014/01/20 02:08 by aleksei Contact: ati.comp@ut.ee