Computer Programming (LTAT.03.001) | TÜ Moodle Liigu põhisisu juurde eesti ‎(et)‎ Deutsch ‎(de)‎ eesti ‎(et)‎ English ‎(en)‎ Français ‎(fr)‎ Suomi ‎(fi)‎ Русский ‎(ru)‎ Kursuste kategooriad Humanitaarteaduste ja kunstide valdkond Sotsiaalteaduste valdkond Meditsiiniteaduste valdkond Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Akadeemilise sekretäri tegevusvaldkond Arendusjuhi tegevusvaldkond Finantsjuhi tegevusvaldkond Kantsleri tegevusvaldkond Rektori tegevusvaldkond Teadusprorektori tegevusvaldkond Õppeprorektori tegevusvaldkond Muu 1 Muu 2 Sisene Computer Programming (LTAT.03.001) Avaleht LTAT.03.001_Eng Computer Programming (LTAT.03.001) | TÜ Moodle General Computer Programming Introduction to Python Course information URL Honor Code Leht Common Questions Leht Course forum Foorum Study Materials Python for Everybody - Charles Severance URL Python documentation URL Thonny IDE Guides Lipikutega raamat Programmeerimise õpik - Optional; in Estonian URL Ava kõik Sulge kõik Week 1. Variables, expressions, and statements Make sure you are ready for the course! Although the practice sessions begin on Friday, we can already do some preparatory work. Please fill out the start survey below. Read the materials for Week 1 and watch the videos there. Install Thonny on your computer and try if it works. Solve Quiz 1 below. Solve the first homework exercises found in the materials of Week 1 and submit your solutions through the link below. The homework deadlines will be Fridays at 8:00, but as an exception, the deadline for the first homework is Sunday evening. After you have solved the quiz and homework exercises, browse other materials made available in the course. These are not graded. The first practice session will be on February 16, 12:15 , in Moodle (link below). If you have questions that you would like to have answered in the session, please write them under "What questions do you have?". Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides - Introduction Fail Video lecture slides - Variables, Expressions, and Statements Fail Exercises Start suvey Tagasiside Märgi tehtuks Quiz 1 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Magic square Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Please use either of the following browsers: Chrome, Firefox, or Opera. Click on "Practice session February 11, 12:15" and then "Join session". If you wish to use your microphone, click on "Microphone". If you only want to listen, then click on "Listen only". Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 2. Conditional Execution This week's work Study the material on conditional execution of statements . Solve Quiz 2 below before Friday . Do the homework exercises and submit the programs (3 files) before Friday . If you would like to approach the topic slowly or want more practice, there is also a set of smaller practice tasks available. Please try your best at the programming tasks. Good luck! Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Exercises Quiz 2 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht Execution of conditional statements Test Quadrants Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 3. Functions This week's work This week we'll look at functions. Study the material on functions . Solve Quiz 3. Submit the solutions to the three homework exercises. There are also smaller practice tasks available if you would like to have more dedicated practice. If you feel strong, you can try your hand at the first programming challenge. There is a possibility to set up an additional consultation at a separate time. If you would like to participate, please give your input about the possible times. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Time for additional consultation Viki Exercises Quiz 3 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht Trip abroad Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Review exercise Test Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 4. Loops and Iterations This week's work Study the course material on loops . Especially please make sure you understand the examples there. Solve Quiz 4. Submit the solutions to the homework exercises. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Exercises Quiz 4 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht Executing a loop Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 5. Strings. Files This week's work This week's topic is strings and files. Study the course material on strings and files. Solve Quiz 5. Submit your solutions to the homework exercises. You can also try your hand at the second programming challenge. Remind that on March 22 we'll have the first test. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides - Strings Fail Video lecture slides - Files Fail Exercises Quiz 5 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht String game Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 6. FIRST TEST This week's work The test takes place during the practice session on Friday, March 22. The first part is a Moodle quiz, the second part is programming tasks. Solve Quiz 6. Review previous weekly quizzes that have been opened in practice mode. To prepare for the test, solve the sample test. After the test, please fill out the feedback questionnaire. The retake of the first test will take place on Monday, April 1 at 14:00. Quiz 6 Test Märgi tehtuks Python crossword Mäng What questions do you have? Viki Test rules Leht Sample test - Quiz Märgi tehtuks Sample test - Programming tasks Leht Sample test - Submit log file Ülesanne Märgi tehtuks Tasks - March 22 To begin, please agree with the declaration below; then the tasks will open. After you finish the quiz, go to the programming tasks. Declaration of working independently Küsitlus Tee valik Retake of the first test - April 1 To start, please agree with the declaration below. Declaration of working independently Küsitlus Tee valik Week 7. Lists This week's work Study the material on lists. Solve Quiz 7. Submit your solutions to the homework exercises. This week is also the start of the course project . Please find your project partner and 1) register together with your partner to a project group, 2) submit a brief description of your project (due date April 5). You can also try a new programming challenge. If you would like to retake the test, please give your input about the possible times; based on that we'll agree on the exact time in the session. March 29 is Good Friday before Easter . There will still be a live practice session on Friday, but you don't need to participate and can watch the recording afterward. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Project rules Leht Time for the test retake Viki Exercises Quiz 7 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Select project group Rühma valimine Märgi tehtuks Submit project description Ülesanne Ligipääs piiratud, v.a juhul kui sa kuulud rühmitusse Project group selected Smaller practice tasks Leht Grandchildren Interaktiivne sisu What type of programmer are you? Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 8. Nested Loops This week's work This week we have reading material . Solve Quiz 8. Submit your solutions to homework exercises found in the material. If you haven't done so already, please form a project group and submit the project description by April 5. Instructions on how to install new modules in Thonny are here . Remind that in addition to the regular practice sessions, there is a possibility to participate in an additional consultation, where we can discuss various aspects of the material that have remained unclear to you. The first test can be retaken on April 1, 14:00. The tasks are under Week 6 materials. Study materials and homework URL Exercises Quiz 8 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht Indices and elements Interaktiivne sisu Double loop over a matrix Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Review exercise Test Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 9. Dictionaries This week's work Study the materials on dictionaries. Solve Quiz 9. Submit your solutions to the homework exercises 1 and 2. If you wish, you can try to solve the next programming challenge. If you have any questions or topics that we should look at, please write them in the document below. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Exercises Quiz 9 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht Find pairs Interaktiivne sisu Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 10. Tuples, sets This week's work Study the materials on tuples and sets . Solve Quiz 10. Submit your solutions to homework exercises found in the material. Don't forget to work on your project! Remind that on April 26 we'll have the second test. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Exercises Quiz 10 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Sample solutions of practice session problems Kaust Week 11. SECOND TEST This week's work The test takes place during the practice session on Friday, April 26.
The organization of the second test is similar to that of the first test. Solve Quiz 11. Review previous weekly quizzes that have been opened in practice mode. To prepare for the test, solve the sample test. After the test, please fill out the feedback questionnaire. You can also try a new programming challenge. The retake of the second test will take place on Monday, May 6 at 14:15. Quiz 11 Test Märgi tehtuks What questions do you have? Viki Test rules Leht Sample test - Quiz Märgi tehtuks Sample test - Programming tasks Leht Sample test - Submit log file Ülesanne Märgi tehtuks Tasks - April 26 To begin, please agree with the declaration below and then start with part I. Declaration of working independently Küsitlus Tee valik Retake of the second test - May 6 To start, please agree with the declaration below. Declaration of working independently Küsitlus Tee valik Week 12. Graphics (Tkinter). Projects This week's work This week we'll have a small chapter on Tkinter graphics. Study the materials and solve the quiz and the programming tasks. Submit the alpha version of your project by May 3, 8:00 . When submitting, please also describe your further plans with the project. The presentation session is split into two parts, at 12:15 and 14:15. Register yourself for a suitable time. For the May 3 session, please prepare a short presentation about the current state of your project. The session room is already open, and you can try your presentation there. If you would like to retake the second test, please give your input about the possible time. Study materials and homework URL Guidelines for project presentation Leht Time for the test retake Viki Exercises Quiz 12 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Submit the alpha version of project Ülesanne Ligipääs piiratud, v.a juhul kui sa kuulud rühmitusse Project group selected Select presentation time Rühma valimine Märgi tehtuks Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Feedback to the presentations Tagasiside Märgi tehtuks Week 13. Object-Oriented Programming This week's work Study the materials . Solve Quiz 13. Do the homework exercises and submit the programs. There is also a new programming challenge available. The retake of the second test will be on May 6, at 14:15. The tasks are under Week 11 section. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Exercises Quiz 13 Test Märgi tehtuks Sample solutions of homework problems Kaust Smaller practice tasks Leht Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Session slides URL Session exercises Tund Week 14. Inheritance This week's work Study this week's material on inheritance. Solve Quiz 14. Submit your solutions to the homework exercises. Don't forget to work on your project! If you need help on something, please come to the additional consultation or ask the instructor. Study materials and homework URL Video lecture slides Fail Exercises Quiz 14 Test Märgi tehtuks Smaller practice tasks Leht Practice session What questions do you have? Viki Jäta vahele Tegevused Tegevused Foorumid Interaktiivne sisu Küsitlused Mäng Rühma valimine Tagasiside Testid Tunnid Vahendid Vikid Ülesanded Jäta vahele DUE DATES DUE DATES 22.03 FIRST TEST 05.04 Project description 26.04 SECOND TEST 03.05 Initial version of the project 31.05 Final version of the project 07.06 EXAM - First date 14.06 EXAM - Second date 21.06 Exam retake Jäta vahele SCHEDULE SCHEDULE Mon 11:15 Additional consultation Fri 8:00 Homework deadline Fri 12:15 Practice session Sun 23:59 Session work deadline Jäta vahele INSTRUCTOR INSTRUCTOR Reimo Palm Lecturer in Informatics reimo.palm@ut.ee