Arvutusliku neuroteaduse seminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2021/22 kevad Arvutusliku neuroteaduse seminar (MTAT.03.292) EN Logi sisse Arvutusliku neuroteaduse seminar 2021/22 kevad Main Process Timetable Tips Computational Neuroscience Seminar (MTAT.03.292) Seminars : Tuesdays at 14:15-16:00 TBD @ MS Teams (log into courses to see link) Questions : Oriol Corcoll (oriol.corcoll.andreu@ut.ee) Raul Vicente (raulvicente@gmail.com) Lab's website: http://neuro.cs.ut.ee Mail list: aine.ati.cnsseminar@lists.ut.ee Slack: neurocs.slack.com channel #course-cns-seminar . About the course The course is mainly addressed to the Master and Doctorate programs. Students interested in acquiring a perspective in modern neuroscience and computational neuroscience research are welcomed. We will cover advanced and recent papers in neuroscience and deep learning. Advanced research-level discussions are expected to ensure after each paper presentation. Depending on the number of participants each student will read 1 or 2 scientific articles and explain those articles to the others. Note that seminars will be recorded, if you have a problem with this let us know beforehand. Topic focused seminar The seminar will focus on a specific topic related to computational neuroscience. This semester we will discuss the topic of Causal Representation Learning Grading criteria This is a pass/fail course. During the course, you will collect points 1 . To pass you need to collect 70 out of 100 points: Presenting an article gives you 50 points multiplied by the score from the listener feedback (example: if listener feedback is 16 out of 20, then you get 50*0.8 = 40 points) Attending all seminars gives 20 points (~ 1.42 per seminar 2 ) 30 points can be collected from the tests (answering all 4 questions correctly is worth ~2.1 points 2 ) Marks spreadsheet 1 Rescaling might occur. 2 Depends on the total number of seminars. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused