<LINK>https://dps.cs.ut.ee/workshop03062022/program.html</LINK>
Workshop 1 Toggle navigation Menu Theses topics Home People Research Publications Teaching Gallery PROGRAM Workshop on Sensors for the METAVERSE Tartu, Estonia ImgCredits:TiiuKaljuste June 3,2022; University of Tartu Delta Building, Auditorium 1008 Opening Remarks (14:10): Welcome Words! Huber Flores , University of Tartu, Estonia Keynote Talk: The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Metaverse (14:15 - 15:15) Watch the Keynote Talk Recording here Pan Hui The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (HKUST), Hong Kong Abstract: We envision in the future the virtual world will mix and co-exist with the physical world in such an immersive way that we cannot tell what is real and what is virtual. We will live and interact with the virtual objects that are blended into our environments with advanced holographic technology or with high-quality head mounted displays and lose the virtuality boundary. We call such a new reality Surreality. Our vision of “metaverse” is a multi-world. There are multiple virtual worlds developed by different technology companies and there is also the Surreality where real and virtual merged. While the metaverse may seem futuristic, catalysed by emerging technologies such as Extended Reality, 5G, and Artificial Intelligence, the digital “big bang” of our cyberspace is not far away. This talk aims to offer a comprehensive framework that examines the latest metaverse development under the dimensions of state-of-the-art technologies and metaverse ecosystems, illustrates the possibility of the digital “big bang”, and propose a concrete research agenda for the development of the metaverse. Reality will die; long live Surreality. Speaker bio: Pan Hui is a Chair Professor of Computational Media and Arts and Director of the Center for Metaverse and Computational Creativity at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. He is also the Nokia Chair in Data Science at the University of Helsinki. He received his PhD from the Computer Laboratory at University of Cambridge, and both his Bachelor and MPhil degrees from the University of Hong Kong. He was a Distinguished Scientist at the Deutsche Telekom Laboratories (T-labs) and an adjunct Professor of social computing and networking at Aalto University. His industrial profile also includes his research at Intel Research Cambridge, UK and Thomson Research Paris, France. Pan Hui is a world-leading expert in Augmented Reality and Mobile Computing, with more than 400 research papers, 3 patents, and over 22,000 citations. He is an International Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering, a member of Academia Europaea, an IEEE Fellow, and an ACM Distinguished Scientist. Coffee Break (15:15 - 15:30) Watch the Session 1 and Session 2 Recording here Session 1: Human Sensing HIPPO: Pervasive Hand-Grip Estimation from Everyday Interactions (15:30 - 15: 50) Zhigang Yin , University of Tartu, Estonia The MIDAS Touch: Thermal Dissipation Resulting from Everyday Interactions as a Sensing Modality (15:50 - 16:10) Farooq Ayoub Dar , University of Tartu, Estonia Coffee Break (16:10 - 16:30) Session 2:  Social Sensing Applications Socially Aware Federated Learning: Challenges and Opportunities in Collaborative Data Training (16:30 - 16:50) Abdul-Rasheed Ottun , University of Tartu, Estonia Opportunistic Collaborative Training for Federated Learning (16:50 - 17:10) Souvik Paul , University of Tartu, Estonia Break and Discussion Closing remarks (17:30) Huber Flores , University of Tartu, Estonia