HPC Center | UTHPC Center menu About HPC Center What We Do Projects Careers Contact Us Products and Services All products and services Industry solutions Science Publications Referencing UT HPC News and events News Events Pricing Pricing Calculate your costs Getting help Overview Documentation Request service Services status page Services status close menu About HPC Center What We Do Projects Careers Contact Us Products and Services All products and services Industry solutions Science Publications Referencing UT HPC News and events News Events Pricing Pricing Calculate your costs Getting help Overview Documentation Request service Services status About HPC Center Learn more about who we are and what we do Products and Services Explore HPC solutions to modernize your research and business Science See how HPC solutions are driving science and research News and events Be up to date on product updates, events and workshops organized by HPC Center Pricing Estimate the cost for your solutions Getting help Documentation for all HPC Center products and services Services status page Statuses of all HPC Center services High performance computing solutions for research and innovation. Transform your ideas into discoveries. Explore products and services LUMI LUMI is the fastest supercomputer in Europe and one of the eco-friendliest supercomputers in the world. We offer access to LUMI computing resources for both academic and commercial users. Apply now! The primary benefits of HPC Our computing resources are open for use to any research groups from the University of Tartu and other Estonian science- and research institutions are also welcome. Our resources are also open for the public sector and commercial users. A complete set of high performance computing & data storage resources Flexible solutions for machine learning, simulations, AI workloads and advanced analytics, suitable for sensitive data. Fast and reliable user support Focus on your goals while we take care about infrastructure, administration and security. Affordable prices Employ the Baltics’ largest HPC cluster and LUMI supercomputer for solving complex problems by paying only for what you use. Our products and services HPC Services High-power computational resources and related services Cloud services On-demand compute, storage and networking via a self-service portal Hosted infrastructure / laaS Centrally hosted and managed infrastructure, provided as a service All Our products and services News and events SOCCER at OCSC 2024. We learn for Cyber! The SOCCER team of the University of Tartu participated in the OCSC (Open Cyber Security Conference)... Read more NeIC 2024 Conference "Nordic e-Infrastructure Tomorrow" The NeIC 2024 conference in Tallinn on May 27-29 brings together e-infrastructure experts, researchers, policymakers, and e-infrastructure providers from the Nordics and beyond. NeIC facilitates the development and operation of... Read more Nextflow course for beginners (April 19, April 26, May 3, 2024) This 3-day Nextflow course by ELIXIR Estonia, in collaboration with the University of Tartu HPC Center, comprehensively introduces the powerful workflow language. Nextflow is renowned for its robust, scalable, and... Read more All news and events Getting help Request Service Start using HPC Center products and services Documentation Find best practises and documentation for all our products and services coins-1-glyph Prices Experience top-tier computing power at unbeatable prices About HPC Center What We Do Projects Careers Contact Us Products and Services All products and services Industry solutions Science Publications Referencing UT HPC News and events News Events Pricing Pricing Calculate your costs Getting help Overview Documentation Request service Services status page Follow us Terms and Services Privacy Policy Information Security © UTHPC Center 2024