Software Engineering Group Institute of Computer Science Faculty of Science and Technology University of Tartu Software Engineering Group Home Members Research Teaching Theses Topics 2023 Defended Theses Events Contact Log in Postdoctoral Research Fellowship in Business Process Privacy Analysis Institute of Computer Science, University of Tartu, Estonia Applications are invited for a position of Postdoctoral Research Fellow at the Software Engineering Research Group , Institute of Computer Science, University of Tartu. The position is tied to a DARPA-funded project ( BRANDEIS program ) aimed at developing methods and tools for analyzing business process models with respect to privacy requirements. The successful candidate will lead an effort to develop a method that takes as input process models with privacy metadata and analyzes these models to detect and to quantify unintentional disclosures of private information. Where privacy leakages are discovered, the method will identify and apply possible counter-measures. The project brings together researchers from the fields of information security, cryptography and business process management, and will be conducted in cooperation with Cybernetica - a leading information security company in the Baltics. Candidates must have a PhD in Computer Science or a related discipline, or be close to completing a PhD. Expertise in at least one of the following topics is essential: business process analysis, program analysis, privacy and/or security analysis. Experience in building research prototypes and working in collaborative research projects is highly desirable. Remuneration will be in the range 2000-2500 euros/month. Estonia applies a flat income tax of 20% on salaries and provides public health insurance for employees. The position will be for 3 years. The successful applicant will be expected to start during the first half of 2016. Applications will be assessed on a continuous basis until the position is filled. Applications (including CV with list of publications) should be sent by e-mail to Prof. Marlon Dumas (firstname dot lastname ät ut.ee)