Demo Reels - The CGVR Study Lab The Computer Graphics and Virtual Reality Study Lab @ University of Tartu, Institute of Computer Science Menu Home News Usage Guide Inventory Companies Courses Demo Reels CGS Slides Online Courses Game Jams Thesis Offered Topics Defended Theses Literature Preparation Slides Reviewer Guide Dictionary (Est) Projects Research Exhibitions Student Projects Delta VR Delta Building Viz VREX Toolbox VR Headset Study Services Collaboration Articles Useful Graphic Design Tools Guide to Expos Of Thesis Writing The VR Gamedev Guide About Contact Demo Reels Computer Graphics Playlist Computer Game Development and Design Playlist Playlist of all reels Field Trips for High Schools Institute of Computer Science Online Courses for Everyone Game Development Education Thesis Supervision CGVR Facebook page YouTube channel Recent Posts Tartu Ülikooli Mängujämm 2024 University of Tartu Pro Game Jam 2024 Computer Graphics Projects EXPO 2024 External Links iCV Research Lab, University of Tartu LVLup! Video Game Museum Mectory XR Keskus, TalTech Alpha Control Lab, TalTech IVAR Lab, TalTech APT GameGenerator IGDA Estonia EEVR About The CGVR Lab The Computer Graphics and Virtual Reality Lab at the Institute of Computer Science , University of Tartu , Estonia provides video game development, virtual reality (VR), and computer graphics education both inside and outside the uni and a study place for our students. We research psychology and computational neuroscience using VR. Learn more. Recent Posts Tartu Ülikooli Mängujämm 2024 Are you ready to bring your dream computer game to life? University of Tartu Institute of Computer Science and CGVR laboratory recently hosted an electrifying event that brought together gaming enthusiasts of all skill levels, though, mostly focusing on beginners. An Educational Challenge Tartu Ülikooli Mängujämm 2024 was an exciting event where participants had less […] University of Tartu Pro Game Jam 2024 The University of Tartu Pro Game Jam 2024, held from January 26th to 28th, was a collaborative event catering to both gaming enthusiasts and professional developers. The event encompassed two parallel tracks: the Global Game Jam 2024 for junior participants and an advanced game development challenge for seasoned professionals. Splitting of Juniors and Pros The […] Contact Info Narva mnt 18 (Delta Center) rooms 2007 and 3046, 51009, Tartu, Estonia +372 5395 0310 (M. Vasser) cgvr@ut.ee