Arukad Transpordisüsteemid - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Arukad Transpordisüsteemid (MTAT.08.040) EN Logi sisse Arukad Transpordisüsteemid 2023/24 sügis Home Lectures Practicals Projects Assignments Readings Welcome to ITS Course Lectures: Wednesdays at 12:15, Delta 1008. First lecture on 13th Sep 2023. Please check the Lectures section to know how the session will be held (classroom, hybrid, or online). All the lectures and lab sessions will be recorded and available at the end of each session. Please stay home if you are unwell. This is for the safety of all of us. Practicals: Fridays at 12:15, Classroom 1008. First practice session on 15th Sep 2023. Please check the Practicals section to know how the session will be held (classroom, hybrid, or online). We suggest you check the lab material before attending the online sessions to take advantage of the lab session. Lecturers: Amnir Hadachi (hadachi@ut.ee) Lab Assistant and TAs: Shan Wu (shan.wu@ut.ee) Kaveh Khoshkhah (Kaveh.Khoshkhah@ut.ee) '-Note: You will be added to Teams Group before the first lab session.' Office Hours: ' You can make an appointment by Email. ' Objective This is an introductory course to the field of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS). The course aims to enlighten the importance of using information and communications technologies in transport through ITS. The course will introduce the basic concepts and principles of systems integration and technology implementation applied to intelligent transportation systems. Moreover, the course will cover the key technologies in sensing, communication, and data management and techniques for system evaluation, including automatic vehicle location and identification, dynamic control systems, travel information systems, and incident detection systems. In addition, the course gives an overview of ITS products and services as well as economic, social, and environmental issues in ITS implementation. Topics This class will include but is not limited to the following topics: Introduction to ITS: definition, roles, and involvement. Advanced Traveler Information Systems (ATIS) Advanced Transportation Management Systems (ATMS) ITS services: Advanced Public Transportation Systems (APTS), Commercial Vehicle Operation (CVO), etc ITS and technologies: Automated highway systems (AHS), Autonomous Vehicles, Intelligent Infrastructures, etc Critical ITS issues: ITS and security, ITS and safety, human factors, privacy, sustainability, etc The future of ITS Grading: Assignments: 40% Project: 35% Final Exam: 25% Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused