Tarkvara testimine - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Tarkvara testimine (LTAT.05.006) EN Logi sisse Tarkvara testimine 2023/24 kevad General Information Lectures Labs Submission Quizzes Readings Message Board (Slack) Assessment (incl. Exams) Links Course Assessment Elements: 11 regular lab sessions with homework assignments (60% of course grade), the 10 best homework marks out of 11 will be used for the final grade – we recommend to work in pairs 11 quizzes in Moodle (10% of course grade), the 10 best quizzes out of 11 will be used for the final grade - individual (2 attempts, 15 min each, allowed for each quiz) Written exam (30% of course grade) – individual Exam admission requirements: You must have at least 33% of the maximum number of marks from the homework assignments to be admitted. Further details about lab assignments are given in the Labs  section. Further details about quizzes are given in Moodle. Exams: Exam 1: Thursday, 23-May-2024 at 10:15-11:55, in room r1037 via Moodle - capacity limit: 80 Exam 2: Thursday, 30-May-2024, 10:15-11:55, in room r1037 via Moodle - capacity limit: 80 Retake Exam (resit): Thursday, 13-June-2024 at 10:15-11:55, in room 1022. via Moodle - Please note that you must register for the retake exam in ÕIS2 at the latest 3 days before the exam date. You must also have previously registered for one of the regular exams (i.e., exam 1 or 2). - Special rules apply for students participating in the EDF exercises scheduled during the 2nd half of May. Note: The exam duration is 100 min! In the SIS, the reserved time slots are 120 min to accommodate administrative tasks such as distribution and collection of exam materials. In order to get started in time, please arrive a few minutes before the exam starts. You must sit (physically) in the assigned exam room. IDs will be checked. The exam will be done online in Moodle. The exam opens automatically and closes automatically. Make sure you have a stable online connection. The exam is open book / open laptop. You may use any materials you like but you are not allowed to communicate with another person during the exam. How to fail the course: Not being admitted to the exam due to low number of marks in the homework assignments will result in the overall course grade 'F' (fail). In this case, no retake exam (resit) can be taken. Less than 33% of the maximum possible marks from the exam will result in the overall course grade 'F' (fail). Less than 50% of the maximum possible marks from homework assignments, quizzes, and exam will result in the overall course grade 'F' (fail). Retake Exam (resit): Please note that you must register for the retake exam at the latest 3 days before the exam date. Only students who fulfill the admission requirements for the exam and who either missed or failed the written exam (either exam 1 or 2) will be admitted. Not showing up to the regular exam is equivalent to "fail" if no medical certificate is provided. Assessment Results: The overview of marks for quizzes, homework assignments, and exams can be found in Moodle https://moodle.ut.ee/ (You must login with your student account and then go to the course LTAT.05.006) Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused