Keerukusteadus arvutiteadlastele - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Keerukusteadus arvutiteadlastele (LTAT.02.029) EN Logi sisse Keerukusteadus arvutiteadlastele 2023/24 kevad About Timetable Homeworks Project ideas Multi-agent communication Show that multiple agents can learn to communicate in a simple gridworld task. The project is based on article "Cerebral coherence between communicators marks the emergence of meaning" , see also the movies in supplemental material . Supervisor: Jaan Aru Difficulty: medium Torcs racing game Teach a car to drive in  racing game. You need to make use of Torcs Championship Server and Python client . The installation and use of championship server is documented in manual . Supervisor: Tambet Matiisen Difficulty: easy Teach computer to solve equations Given 3 numbers A, B and C, choose an operation so that A (op) B = C. For example given A=2, B=3 and C=5, the correct operation would be +. The state space is three integers, action is either +, -, * or /. The reward is 1, when answer is correct, otherwise 0. Supervisor: Tambet Matiisen Difficulty: too easy? Experiment with MazeBase MazeBase is a simple environment for creating very simple 2D games and training neural network models to perform tasks within them. It was developed by Facebook AI research group to specifically have a control over difficulty in reinforcement learning problems. The system is described in a paper , the code is on GitHub . Supervisor: Tambet Matiisen Difficulty: medium Experiment with WebNav WebNav is a task recently proposed NLP researchers.  In this challenging task, an agent navigates through a web site, which is represented as a graph consisting of web pages as nodes and hyperlinks as directed edges, to find a web page in which a query appears. Example dataset is based on English Wikipedia. Alternatively you could implement and learn game "5 Clicks to Jesus" on the same dataset. Supervisor: Tambet Matiisen Difficulty: hard Replicate DeepMind's Atari results DeepMind's Atari paper sparked the interest in deep reinforcement learning and improved version was later featured on the cover of Nature . Your job is to replicate their results. You need to use Arcade Learning Environment (especially Python API ), some toolkit for convolutional neural networks (say Keras or Neon ) and a lot of GPU power. Supervisor: Tambet Matiisen Difficulty: hard Presentation about AlphaGo Do an in-depth presentation about DeepMind's AlphaGo engine - how it works, what algorithms are used and how they are combined. Supervisor: Ilya Kuzovkin Difficulty: medium Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused