Andmetehnika mitteinformaatikutele - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Andmetehnika mitteinformaatikutele (LTAT.02.026) EN Logi sisse Andmetehnika mitteinformaatikutele 2023/24 kevad Main Lectures Project Homework References Course info Welcome to the fascinating world of data engineering! This course is designed to build upon your existing foundation in BASH, GIT, R, Python, and SQL, and will guide you through the crucial principles and practices of data engineering. As you delve into real-world data engineering tasks, such as ETL (extract, transform, load), you'll enhance your skills and expertise, enabling you to tackle complex challenges with confidence. By the end of this journey, you will have honed your abilities and refined your understanding of the data engineering ecosystem, positioning yourself as a valuable contributor to the rapidly evolving data-driven landscape. Embrace this opportunity to advance your skills and make a lasting impact! Schedule Lectures: Thursday 14.15 - 16.00, Delta - 2048 Practicals/seminars: Thursday 16.15 - 18.00, Delta - 2048 Log in to see panopto link Contacts Lecturer: Priit Adler Learning objectives Student knows and can describe the tasks and role of a data engineer Student can explain terms and concepts related to data engineering; for example ETL, OLAP Student can independently find and extract relevant data from a data file using either the command line or R or Python Student can independently construct and perform SQL queries Student can describe the ETL process and also implement one (with supervision). Grading Project: 50 %
Homework: 50 % Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused