19th Estonian Summer School on Computer and Systems Science - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Esileht 19th Estonian Summer School on Computer and Systems Science EN Logi sisse 19th Estonian Summer School on Computer and Systems Science Homepage Call for Participation Registration Lectures and abstracts Lecture materials Student sessions Social activities Timetable Sponsors Photos Previous schools Committees and Contacts ESSCaSS 2022 Dates: August 15th-17th 2022 (Mon-Wed) Location: University of Tartu Delta Centre, Narva mnt 18 The scope The Estonian Summer School in Computer and Systems Science is an annual international event for PhD and MSc students, postdocs, faculty members. ESSCaSS is promoting the interdisciplinary education of graduate students specialising in (but not limited to) computer science, systems science, software engineering, artificial intelligence, and bioinformatics. These schools carry an essential role in doctoral education in Estonia. The main focus of this year’s ESSCaSS is on machine learning, responsible AI, calibration and fairness of machine learning, etc. Academic lectures Prof. Eyke Hüllermeier - Uncertainty Quantification in Machine Learning: From Aleatoric to Epistemic; and/or Preference Learning and Ranking. University of Munich (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München) ( Linkedin , Scholar ) Prof. Christoph Lampert - Fair and Robust Machine Learning Institute of Science and Technology  Austria ( homepage , Scholar ) Marek Rei, PhD - Encoders: The Art of Packing Text into Vectors Lecturer, Imperial College London ( Homepage , Scholar ) Assoc. Prof. Jaan Aru - The neural idea factory: How new ideas come about AI and Neuroscience, University of Tartu ( Scholar ) Prof. Tanel Tammet - On Common Sense Appied Artificial Intelligence group, Tallinn University of Technology ( ETIS CV , Scholar ) Assoc. Prof. Meelis Kull - Calibration and confidence in Machine Learning Machine Learning, University of Tartu ( Scholar ) Prof. Raul Vicente - The brain through the lens of complex systems Computational Neuroscience, University of Tartu ( Scholar ) Prof. Mark Fišel - Learning to Write Text (Artificially) NLP Tartu, University of Tartu ( Scholar ) Student sessions There are "Student talks and Poster session" planned. The main aim of these activities is to get students actively involved in shaping the summer school. We hope that these sessions give them a possibility to improve their skills in presenting their topic, managing daily tasks more effectively, and sharing the most important information with each other. Social activities One of the most valuable resources in life is the network of contacts you have! Thus, we have organised some social activities to stimulate mingling, getting to know each other, and exchanging your ideas. Contacts: If You have any questions or problems regarding summer school, please contact us: e-mail esscass@ut.ee ESSCaSS Facebook page Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused