Masinõppe erikursus - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Masinõppe erikursus (MTAT.03.317) EN Logi sisse Masinõppe erikursus 2023/24 kevad Main Schedule Presentations Links Prompt Engineering Welcome to the special course in machine learning spring 2024: prompt engineering! In this main page you can find some general information about the course; In the Schedule tab you can find the order of presentations, recording of past sessions, links to the presentation questions, etc.; In the Presentations tab you can find guidelines for the seminars and evaluation methodology, amongst other relevant information; Check the Links tab for some useful resources. Introduction In this course we will traverse through the very new field of prompt engineering. Large language models (LLMs) are ubiquitous nowadays and there remains the question of how to ideally take advantage of their capabilities. Prompt engineering can be defined as the optimization of the human-machine interaction in the process of structuring prompts of text that can be properly interpreted by a generative AI model in order for it to provide the desired output. Structure As is usual, this special course in machine learning will be structured in the format of seminars, where enrolled students will pick a topic/article to present (reversed classroom approach). We will explore from the conceptual basics until the current state-of-the-art in the literature through papers. Please check the tab "Schedule" to select your presentation topic. For the first session (and maybe the second as well), however, I will be giving a talk myself on the basics of prompt engineering, to put everyone on a common ground for the weeks of seminars to follow. The course will take place in hybrid format on Tuesdays at 16:15 - 18:00 in Delta room 1024 and Zoom (log into courses to see the link) . Meetings shall also be recorded and made available after the sessions (but note that, if you are a registered student, attendance is required!) NB!: the first session will take place on February 20th! In order to pass the course, enrolled students will have to present their topics and come up with questions about them, which will be passed on for other students to answer. Check the tab "Presentations" for details about the methodology and what is expected from you while presenting. Contact Lecturer in charge: Victor Pinheiro, victor.pinheiro@ut.ee . Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused