Ärianalüütika - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Ärianalüütika (MTAT.03.319) EN Logi sisse Ärianalüütika 2023/24 kevad Main Lectures Links Description We will use moodle for this course All the students have been imported in the Moodle. here you can find basic information regarding the course This course is meant for students as a hands-on experience for solving business problems in the fields of sales, marketing, and business operations by applying statistical analysis and data mining techniques. We will be using Python to handle the case studies. Schedule Mondays 10:15 - 14, Fully online. Consultation hours Please book an appointment with Email or ask us your queries on Moodle. Organization of the course Each lecture is 4 academic hours, where in the first 2 hours we learn and discuss the problem, relevant techniques, and solutions, while the next 2 hours are practical, where we solve the case studies. The homework will be mostly the continuation of the provided cases. For homeworks, you can work in a pair or individually. Assessment of the course There are two modes of assessment. Homeworks (60 marks) and Final Exam (30 marks).
To get a pass grade, you must score at least 51 points in total AND at least 12 out of 30 points in the final exam. Organizers of the course Rajesh Sharma is responsible for this course. For any questions please send an email: rajesh.sharma@ut.ee Acknowledgment This course has been developed with the support of the SoBigData Research Infrastructure funded by the European Commision's H2020 Framework Programme. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused