Programmeerimine keeles C++ - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Programmeerimine keeles C++ (MTAT.03.158) EN Logi sisse Programmeerimine keeles C++ 2023/24 kevad Home Labs Submission of solutions Results Examination times Guides References All materials for the module are in courses. Moodle is only used for homework feedback . Since this is the English version of the module, materials are in English only. MTAT.03.158 Programming in C++ The module will be taught in blocks of two weeks each (block 1=week 24+25 etc.). I will use the first week for an introduction, the second week of the block is for homework/project work. For the first 6 blocks, there is a homework. The deadline for submitting homework is on Sunday night at 23:59 at the end of the block (before next block). Labs (2024) Lecturer: Stefan Kuhn (stefan.kuhn@ut.ee) and Mohammad Anagreh Group 1: Tuesday 16.15–18.00 r. 2005 Group 2: Thursday 12.15–14.00 r. 2005 Group 3: Thursday 16.15–18.00 r. 2005 Requirements for passing the module Solve lab tasks Take the exam Sample exam Assessment The subject is graded and ends with an exam Lab assignments (first 6 blocks) make up to 60% of the total mark The exam gives up to 40% of the total mark In the exam, you must complete a written test. It is based on the materials of the first six labs. It is useful to read the C++ Language Tutorial . NB! You will be able to take the exam if the lab assignments have been completed for at least half of the points. Late lab solutions can be submitted at the end of the semester. Up to two solutions are allowed. Homework is individual and the author of the homework confirms that the solutions are his creation. A solution with clear teamwork elements will not receive any mark. In the second attempt, more stringent measures are applied. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused