Sügavõpe masinnägemises - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Sügavõpe masinnägemises (LTAT.02.028) EN Logi sisse Sügavõpe masinnägemises 2023/24 kevad Main Classes Homeworks Projects Grades Links Homework submission Please review the following rules before submitting your assignment: Please, submit only .ipynb that you extract from the Colaboratory. Run your homework exercises before submitting (output should be present, preferably restart the kernel and press run all the cells). Do not change the description of tasks in red (even if there is a typo|mistake|etc). Please, make sure to avoid unnecessary long printouts. Each task should be solved right under the question of the task and not elsewhere. Solutions to both regular and bonus exercises should be submitted in one IPYNB file. Note: The late days will be used automatically if you submit after the deadline unless you let us know in advance. The following is the schedule for homeworks This schedule can change (check Slack for the updates): Homework # Assignment date Deadline (23:59) HW01 February 21 March 10 HW02 March 13 March 31 HW03 April 3 April 21 HW1 - CNNs in depth (Deadline: 10.03.2024 ) the submission has been closed Project: dataset (Deadline: 24.03.2024 ) The task description is here: https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/DL4CV/spring/Main/Projects . Please, below submit your 2-page report describing the dataset you have created, motivation, sources, preprocessing techniques, labeling methods, and any challenges faced. Please highlight very clearly if the dataset is new or a modification of the existing dataset. If it is a modification, how was it modified? If it is a new dataset, how was it collected and labeled? Describe train and test splits. Add examples of images and labels to your report. Provide relevant summary statistics. the submission has been closed HW2 - Hands-on object detection and segmentation (Deadline: 31.03.2024 ) the submission has been closed HW3 - Vision Transformers (Deadline: 21.04.2024 ) the submission has been closed Project: Participation in Kaggle competitions (Deadline: 12.05.2024 ) The full task description is here: https://courses.cs.ut.ee/2024/DL4CV/spring/Main/Projects . A 2-page report summarizing your approaches, methodologies, and performance in the competitions. Upload this report to the course's homework page by May 12 (23:59, Sunday). This part is worth 10 out of 40 points. Lahenduste esitamiseks peate olema sisse loginud ja kursusele registreerunud. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused