Virtuaalreaalsus - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Virtuaalreaalsus (LTAT.06.019) EN Logi sisse Virtuaalreaalsus 2023/24 kevad Main Schedule Labs Projects Links LTAT.06.019 Virtual Reality Disclaimer: the content on this courses page is subject to change Lectures : Wednesday at 12:15 (Delta room 2006) Lab session : Wednesday at 14:15 (Delta room 2006) Questions : Ulrich Norbisrath (ulrich.norbisrath@ut.ee) Jaanus Jaggo (jaanus.jaggo@ut.ee) Ats Kurvet (ats.kurvet@ut.ee) Discord Server : link Everyone has to join! Virtual reality (VR) is already transforming the way we play and the way we work. The metaverse is knocking on the door and might replace the Internet as we know it. This class is preparing students to be active citizens of a potential metaverse with a very hands-on focus on virtual reality. We are covering content creation and optimization, interaction with several new modalities, best development practices,  and team-based VR development. We will explore and experience the fluent borders between game design and work environments and encourage students to actively shape our idea of a metaverse in extensive hands-on project work. Grading TO BE CHANGED! We are going to base the passing on 3 parts that all need to be passed: exercises (mini in class exercises + homework) - this is mainly graded after the class. We will give feedback and advice for your solution during various checkpoints. There will be 3 assessments of homework, and 2 check marks (of 3 possible) are required to pass this part. project (depending on your suggested projects, projects can be carried out in different team sizes - we facilitate you having the right team size), we are going to offer 4 checkpoints (first after 6 weeks, second after 9 weeks, third after 11, fourth after 13) - here you have to present the status of your project (as well as some experiments that are based on techniques you learned in class - like for example locomotion exercises or a good story for your project) to one of us (we are going to refine the exact requirements in the next days). We will use these checkpoints to give feedback and give you a passing mark (we will also take a look at your portfolios here). We can deny you the checkpoint mark and ask you to fix something in the following week. You need to collect here 3 check marks (of 4 possible) to pass this part. final project presentation - every team has to present their final projects - this is kind of your final exam and should include the features and fixes agreed on in the checkpoints from above - therefore if you collected the check marks above and fulfill the agreed on fixes, you should easily pass here. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused