Research Seminar in Software Engineering - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Research Seminar in Software Engineering (LTAT.05.023) EN Logi sisse Research Seminar in Software Engineering 2023/24 sügis General Information Seminar Meetings Seminar Milestones & Submissions Submission Communication Channel (Slack) Assessment and Grading Research Seminar in Software Engineering (LTAT.05.023) Course Responsible: Dietmar Pfahl (dietmar.pfahl at ut dot ee) - room: 3007 (Delta) Target group and/or preconditions for participation: This seminar is for 2nd year students of the MSc Software Engineering curriculum. Participants must produce an agreement in writing from their supervisor on the topic of their master's thesis at the latest by 24 Sep 2023 . The supervisor of the master's thesis must be from the Chair of Software Engineering and Information Systems. If no such confirmation can be produced, students will be removed from the seminar. Prerequisites: This seminar can be used for 3 ECTS in the seminar module after the mandatory spring seminar (MTAT.03.270 at UT or Master's Seminar I at TalTech) for students enrolled in the MSc Software Engineering program has been completed successfully. Theses topics offered by faculty members (and their PhD students) in the Chair of Software Engineering and Information Systems of can be found here (usually at the end of August): https://cs.ut.ee/en/content/research (scroll down to the correct chair and then check out the links to the groups within the Chair of Software Engineering and Information Systems - NB: There are four groups within the Chair and all of them are relevant, i.e., not only the one group that has the same name as the Chair) Time: Wed, 16:15-18:00 Room: Narva mnt 18 - 2048 (Delta building) Language: English First Seminar Meeting: * 13-Sep-2023: Introduction - For preparation read requirements for graduation theses at the Inst. of Comp. Science (ICS) Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused