Külalisloengud suurandmetest, privaatsusest ja hajussüsteemidest - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 sügis Külalisloengud suurandmetest, privaatsusest ja hajussüsteemidest (LTAT.00.000) EN Logi sisse Külalisloengud suurandmetest, privaatsusest ja hajussüsteemidest 2023/24 sügis Home Privacy 26 and 27 Sep Big Data Summarisation 28. Sep Privacy 29. Sep Foundations of Distributed Computing 2.-4.Oct Set of guest lectures by Prof. Amr El Abbadi (2023) We are happy to announce the following guest lectures by prof. Amr El Abbadi. All lectures are open and free to attend. Time: 16:15-18 (or shorter) Location: All lectures in the Delta Center, please see each page separately for lecture hall nr. 26. and 27. September - Towards Scalable and Practical Privacy Preserving Information Retrieval 28. September - On Big Data Summarization with Novel Applications. 29. September - Towards Practical, Scalable and Private Management of Cloud Data 2., 3., and 4. October - Foundations of Distributed Systems Biography Amr El Abbadi is a Professor of Computer Science. He received his B. Eng. from Alexandria University, Egypt, and his Ph.D. from Cornell University. His research interests are in the fields of fault-tolerant distributed systems and databases, focusing recently on Cloud data management, blockchain based systems and privacy concerns. Prof. El Abbadi is an ACM Fellow, AAAS Fellow, and IEEE Fellow.  He was Chair of the Computer Science Department at UCSB from 2007 to 2011. He served as Associate Graduate Dean at the University of California, Santa Barbara from 2021--2023.  He has served as a journal editor for several database journals, including, The VLDB Journal, IEEE Transactions on Computers and The Computer Journal. He has been Program Chair for multiple database and distributed systems conferences, including most recently SIGMOD 2022. He currently serves on the executive committee of the IEEE Technical Committee on Data Engineering (TCDE) and was a board member of the VLDB Endowment from 2002 to 2008. In 2007, Prof. El Abbadi received the UCSB Senate Outstanding Mentorship Award for his excellence in mentoring graduate students. In 2013, his student, Sudipto Das received the SIGMOD Jim Gray Doctoral Dissertation Award. Prof. El Abbadi is also a co-recipient of the Test of Time Award at EDBT/ICDT 2015.  He has published over 350 articles in databases and distributed systems and has supervised over 40 PhD students. Amr El Abbadi Homepage and Google Scholar Host and local contact: Prof. Jaak Vilo email: vilo@ut.ee Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused