Bioinformaatika seminar - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Kursused 2023/24 kevad Bioinformaatika seminar (MTAT.03.242) EN Logi sisse Bioinformaatika seminar 2023/24 kevad Main Schedule Topics Tips Materials Bioinformatics Seminar (MTAT.03.242) Course info Seminars: Wednesday 14:15-16:00 @ Narva mnt 18 - 2047 (First meeting on February 28) Contacts: Kaur Alasoo (kaur.alasoo [at] ut.ee) This year's seminar will be based on selected chapters from the An Owner's Guide to the Human Genome: an introduction to human population genetics, variation and disease book, see the Topics page for more details. Learning objectives Learn to critically read and evaluate state-of-the-art bioinformatics research literature. Learn to compare competing computational approach to answer the same biological question. Identify the strengths and weaknesses of different approaches and the trade-offs involved. The seminar is meant to complement the Bioinformatics course thought in parallel. Students without previous background in bioinformatics are strongly recommended to also take the course. Seminar organisations We will have one seminar per week. The date of the first seminar is TBD. In each seminar, we will discuss once chapter from the book together with additional relevant scientific literature (to be added to the Topics page). In each seminar, one student will lead the discussion on this week's chapter, but everybody is expected to read the material and participate in the discussion. Requirements to pass the course: The seminar is a non-differentiated course (pass/fail). You need to participate in at least 80% of the seminars and lead the discussion in one of the seminars. Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused