Student Startup Camp 2016 - Kursused - Arvutiteaduse instituut Esileht Student Startup Camp 2016 EN Logi sisse Student Startup Camp 2016 Home Programme Speakers Register Now! Third Estonian Student Startup Camp (ESCC'2016) 2-7 February 2016, Tartu, Estonia Organized by University of Tartu and Garage48 Foundation . The Estonian Student Startup Camp (ESSC) is an intensive tech entrepreneurship boot-camp designed to arm students with skills and inspiration to launch technology-related ventures. The program is built and delivered by startup entrepreneurs from Estonia and abroad who collaborate to create a hands-on learning experience. The course is built around turning student ideas into teams and into working prototypes. This is facilitated by  intensive mentoring, hands-on talks on specific topics around launching a tech startup and inspirational talks by #Estonianmafia founders , including people behind Testlio, Weekdone, Mooncascade and many more. For Whom? The boot-camp is aimed at students from Estonia, Latvia and elsewhere with a background in IT, engineering, design, marketing and business. The camp also welcomes participants from other disciplines, especially those who bring along with them novel ideas and an entrepreneurial can-do attitude. Every participant will be able to pitch an idea for the camp and/or join an idea one likes the most. Students enrolled in Estonian higher-education institutions may obtain 3 ECTS for successful participation in the camp. Please tick the "3 ECTS" box in the registration form if you wish to obtain credit points. Registration To participate, you need to apply before 15 January 2016 using the SSC'2016 registration form Notifications of admission to the startup camp will be sent within one week of submitting the application. IT Academy Travel Grants IT Academy is offering up to 10 travel grants for students from Estonian higher education institutions who are not studying in Tartu. Students enrolled in full-time studies in the following institutions are eligible: Tallinn University of Technology, IT College, Tallinn University, Tallinn Polytechnic School and Estonian Academy of Arts as well as students from University of Tartu's Narva and Pärnu colleges. There is no separate procedure to apply for the IT Academy travel scholarship. All students who indicate in the travel form that they come from one of the above institutions will be considered for the travel scholarship. Travel grants will be assigned on a first-come, first-serve basis, so hurry up! Contact Any questions? Please contact us: ssc@garage48.org The Student Startup Camp is supported by Information Technology Foundation for Education in Estonian (HITSA) and IT Academy Programme Arvutiteaduse instituut Loodus- ja täppisteaduste valdkond Tartu Ülikool Tehniliste probleemide või küsimuste korral kirjuta: Kursuse sisu ja korralduslike küsimustega pöörduge kursuse korraldajate poole. Õppematerjalide varalised autoriõigused kuuluvad Tartu Ülikoolile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine on lubatud autoriõiguse seaduses ettenähtud teose vaba kasutamise eesmärkidel ja tingimustel. Õppematerjalide kasutamisel on kasutaja kohustatud viitama õppematerjalide autorile. Õppematerjalide kasutamine muudel eesmärkidel on lubatud ainult Tartu Ülikooli eelneval kirjalikul nõusolekul. Courses’i keskkonna kasutustingimused