Welcome [MathWiki] Log In Trace:: Welcome MathWiki Search start Asymptotics The need for asymptotic notation: a case study Big Oh Big Omega Multiple variables Polynomial complexity The negligible, the noticeable and the overwhelming Divisibility and modular arithmetics Divisibility Primes and divisibility Greatest common divisor  and least common multiple Euclidean algorithm Extended Euclidean algorithm Modular arithmetics Finite fields What are rings and fields? Long division of polynomials The general way of constructing finite fields Isomorphisms, homomorphisms, automorphisms. Classification of all finite fields Computations in finite fields What is a group? Multiplicative group in finite fields Subfields Linear algebra 1. Matrices 2. Systems of linear equations and matrices 3. Gaussian elimination algorithm 4. Solving systems of linear equations via invertible matrices Number theory Probability theory Event and probability Probability of two events Conditional probability Total probability Expected value Inequalities Game notation Welcome Mathwiki is a self-study environment for students of computer science. It contains 
selection of  math topics needed in their studies. The materials here include important definitions, general ideas of theory, lot of examples and different exercises with answers. Solving the exercises is really important. Some of the exercises require a little programming – the easiest way to understand abstract theoretical concepts is through practical usage. If you can program it, you can understand it. Other exercises require analysis of algorithms. Theoretical exercises help the reader to understand different aspects of the theory. For working with Mathwiki, note the following guide-lines. Do not use IE for Mathwiki - it will not work properly. Some lessons may take a minute or half for typesetting the math formulas. For fully understanding the lessons, do all the exercises in it. View the example solutions and answers only after you yourself have solved the exercise. Have fun working with Mathwiki Additional information about the environment (also user's guide) can be found HERE . start.txt · Last modified: 2022/02/06 17:54 by swen Contact: ati.comp@ut.ee